# What the Best BDR Teams Are Doing Differently Right Now with Lauren Reeves

**Expert:** John Barrows

**Rank:** 2

**Metadata Score:** 123

**Published:** 2026-05-04

**Duration:** 01:10:30

**Views:** 5,788

**Likes:** 8

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AfSbfLlYdAI

---

# Transcript

[music] >> Hey everyone, welcome back to Make It Happen Mondays where we talk about sales, business, entrepreneurship, personal growth, mental health, and everything in between. We guess what I truly respect and I think make a positive impact on the world around us. Now, this week we got Lauren Reeves on the show. Lauren is a senior BDR manager at Swap Commerce, one of the fastest-growing e-commerce software companies in the world right now. She's got 7 years experience exclusively in the BDR and SDR space.

She scaled the team at Swap from six reps to over 40 across three global offices. Grew up in Kent outside of London, studied journalism at Cardiff University, has a background in dance that took her to the China at 16 years old, which is pretty cool. And she co-hosts a podcast called Can't Take the Call Right Now, which is pretty funny. I found Lauren through her LinkedIn content and her vibe stood out to me immediately. It's one of those things where I actually don't know why she just popped onto the screen, but for me on my feed, but she's been posting consistently for a couple years now.

And she is one of the biggest champions of SDRs right now where everybody else is just saying SDRs are done, BDRs are over, you know, AI is taking over that role, and she is the shining light that is an example of why they're not, which is why I wanted to talk to her because you know, look, I train SDRs, BDRs all the time. I have for the vast majority of my career. But I'm not there on the floor anymore with them. I'm not like making the calls, doing the coaching, you know, every single day. So, I don't see what's really happening.

So, I wanted to get her perspective on this. And [music] she has some great perspective. I mean, she a lot of the stuff that that tried [music] and true things that I remember and and I still teach on, she's an advocate for. I mean, the phone still works when done right. You know, email hyper-personalization that she talked about. We talked [music] about coaching the reps and and hiring, which is probably the most critical. And you know, she she has the vibe check, right? Where yes, okay, [music] they can check off all the boxes, they can do the job, but is the vibe there?

And for her, she's like, I don't know if I can put my finger on it, but that's one of those things that really is critical." So, she is one of the best voices, I think, right now that is championing this role and seeing results of doing it. And I think that's the difference here is that so many people are talking about cold calling's dead or email's dead, but they don't really show what they're doing and and I think it's more based on their opinion than [music] the reality. Now, don't get me wrong, connect rates are getting brutal, response rates are down, >> [music] >> but when you have the right mix of the team, the management, the vibe, the company, SDR BDR roles still execute at a extremely high level and provide a ton of value to an organization.

So, this was a breath of fresh air out of all the AI doom and gloom about this role and >> [music] >> really love the conversation with Lauren and what she's doing over there. So, hope you enjoy the conversation as much as I did. Let's make it happen. Lauren Reeves, welcome to the Make It Happen Monday podcast. How are you doing today? >> I'm doing so well. Thank you for having me. When you messaged, I was like, I've listened to this podcast for so long. And I was like, wait a minute. I was like, yeah.

No, I'm good. It's nice and late now in the UK. Been a good day and then we're prepping for Thursday tomorrow. So, yeah, pretty good. How about you? >> Brilliant. Good, real good. I mean, you know, these days it's I go from being super optimistic and like I can conquer the world to oh my god, we're all going to die like within, you know, every 30 minutes for kind of So, right now I'm super optimistic and feeling good. So, at this moment, things are fantastic. Um >> Say that in 12 hours. Fine. >> Yeah, exactly.

Who knows? But with I mean, outside of all the macroeconomic stuff, that that's a whole different story. So, but the but the micro of what you can control, I think things are going okay for now. >> Good. >> So, one of the reasons why I wanted to have you on the podcast was because, you know, how By the way, just so that I'm catching up here, how long have you been posting on LinkedIn? Like, how long have you been really like like getting a voice out there for SDRs and kind of champion that cause?

>> So, I've Actually, I posted on LinkedIn pretty much since I was an SDR myself, which was over 7 years ago now. I would say I had a good chunk of time when I was an SDR for about a year and a half. I posted a lot of content for myself when I was an SDR, what I was seeing. And then when I first stepped into management, I kind of went quiet because I thought, how can I share my advice when I'm new to management? I've not I've not earned my stripes yet, basically, is how I felt. Not that I think anyone would have thought that.

I think actually people would have loved to have seen me talk about my experience, but you know how it is. You're thinking, "Oh my god, I'm being judged in public. We can't have that." So, I would say I've consistently posted on LinkedIn now for about 2 years, and it's been focused on BDR, helping BDRs, being a leader, my experience as a manager, etc. Um and then the video content I really stepped up in the last like 18 months. >> Okay, cool. Cuz yeah, cuz it's interesting it like you I think you popped into my feed about 6 months ago, and and that's where I started kind of being like, "All right, you know, there's somebody out there at least championing the the BDR role when everything else is being against it." So, that's really why I wanted to talk to you because, you know, I you know, obviously I train BDRs, I train SDRs, I've trained them for my entire career, and you know, but I'm not on the ground floor anymore making the calls, coaching them one-on-one, and you know, I have my uh opinions about what's going on and what needs to happen in the shift, but I wanted to really hear from you on the ground floor of what's working, what's not, and and what's working so well for you cuz you guys are kicking ass over there, so.

Uh so, but before you get into any of that, Lauren, I always love to hear the the you know, your your arc, if you will, and the stuff that we can't find on on LinkedIn. And for you, you know, the dance theme, the the theater, and going to China, and all that stuff is fascinating to me, and then journalism. So, walk me through kind of what made Lauren Lauren, your your influences as a kid, um and and and I'm very curious about the Chinese going to China and dancing in front of So, so could you walk us through that, and then we'll get into the details of the SDR stuff?

>> Yeah, absolutely. So, I grew up somewhere called Kent, which is just southeast of London. Um from a very working-class family. My dad's an electrician. My mom helped manage some cafs. Um in fact, growing up, my mom didn't work, so it was a single-income household. Um and so, growing up, I always had like an idea in my head, okay, they're I could tell they were living paycheck to paycheck, couldn't always get to go on the school trip, or whatever. But they spoiled me in other ways. So, I started dancing when I was 2 and 1/2 years old, and I loved it.

And I still love it. I think dance is amazing. I think any form of like expression. >> What kind of dance, by the way? >> What kind of dance? Uh I did all of it. >> All of it? What's your favorite? Is it >> I think my favorite is like commercial, cuz it's very emotive. Um I wear my feelings on my face, and I think with commercial dance, it's fun, cuz you can get like proper into it. But I did the whole shebang. Ballet, tap, jazz, commercial, did the competitions, all of that growing up. Um and when I got to around 15, 16, it was that decision of, do I go to performing arts college, or do I do my A levels, and then go to university?

>> Mhm. >> And at the time, so, not that it matters as much now, but I'm I'm not a skinny gal. I'm not in by any means overweight, [snorts] but I'm not skinny. And in dance, you have to be pretty skinny at that point. There was, you know, Kim Kardashian changed people's opinions of bodies, like >> Yes. >> But at that point, that was not the case for me. Had to be skinny. It was still very much that physique. And that wasn't my physique. So, I already had this idea that it was going to be quite difficult.

Um and I really enjoyed school. I loved reading. I still love reading. Um and I was like, okay, what can I do at university that's kind of creative. I get to use my brain a bit, but it's not just an English lit degree. And I was like, I'll just do journalism. >> [laughter] >> So, honestly, I was just I was just I was just literally in at school like, what kind of degree can I do? [snorts] Came up with it. And so, chose to go down the university path because I basically like, okay, there's every chance that I won't get employed if I'm a dancer.

And looking back with COVID, all of my performing artist friends were unemployed. For the longest time, you know? So, >> [snorts] >> you know, you're like, in hindsight, like, wow, like, that was never something I could have predicted, but look at the the difference of my life because I made that decision. So, went to university. Um and yeah, I then go into sales, but before that, cuz I know you're interested in China. So, I, like I said, I've done a lot of different genres of dance. And the dance school that I attended was partnered with somewhere called Foshan in the I've pronounced that terribly.

In the south of China. Um they have like their own little school out there. And their students would come to the UK, and then we would get invited to go out to China. So, I got invited one year when I was 16 to go out and perform for the Chinese New Year celebrations in Foshan in China, which was so so fun. >> 16. >> Yeah, it was incredible. Incredible. >> What did that teach you about just people, right? Cultures. And because I mean, I think that's one of the things that, you know, once you get out of your little hometown and your area, right?

And you start to see the world and how even even if you can't speak the language, what were some of the things you took away from that experience that that you feel shaped you today? >> I think one of the biggest things for me that I found so interesting was and I've been to China twice. I went again when I was 18 to go for like a a trek and some villages and things. So, very different experiences, but when I went the first time, I think I found it so interesting how because I was from England and I'm part of the Western world, >> Mhm.

>> they they sort of looked at us like we were like celebrities. >> Yeah. >> And I literally was like, "Wow!" Like >> Right. The blonde hair, right? >> [laughter] >> It was so interesting, whereas I feel like because also there isn't as much diversity in China. Most people that live in China are Chinese. And obviously in the main cities, there will be some diversity of culture because most cities do have a diversity of culture. But where I was did not have that. Like I I didn't see anyone else looking like me.

Like everyone was mostly Chinese. And it it did remind me like, "Wow! Like there's like so much that you don't know." And I think at 16 like getting reminded of that is is quite It's like a step back. I think as an adult, you you know that more. You can be more humble about it, but when you're a child like 16's still a kid. Like you're so dumb. >> Yeah, you're a genius. You you know everything. Your parents are stupid and you're a genius, right? The whole I'm going through that right now with my daughter.

>> You're like 30 when you're 16. It's hilarious. Like I look back and I'm like, "God, girl." Um and yeah, I just I remember just thinking like, "Wow! Like my life is so different." And it's really common to go to boarding school in China. Most people do boarding school. Um and I thought that was so fascinating. I was like, "I couldn't imagine >> No. >> being in boarding school. Like you guys literally have to stay at school every day, 5 days a week. >> your parents, you know what I mean? Like just >> Crazy.

Like I did it just I think it was like it was a big like woah, like life here is so different. What I did find really, really lovely actually about Chinese culture is they were all so happy. >> Mhm. >> Everyone was so happy. And I was like if you went into a school in the UK and you looked around >> Wouldn't see happy. >> the vibe would not be happiness. [laughter] Most of them would be frowns, leaning on their elbows, like oh look at her. But they genuinely were so grateful to be there and I think that that was something that was just really kind of eye-opening as well.

I just think they've got such a better culture around gratitude and like thankfulness about what they get and things. I just don't think we're not as ingrained. I I would just We take it for granted in the UK, so and Western world generally, so >> Yeah, I was going to say >> Yeah, so so cool. Really cool experience. >> So journalism. Uh What did you learn there? Like I mean it's about questioning, asking better Like so from a sales standpoint, I got to imagine that cuz right now, you know, there was a trend obviously when it was oh, you want to be a coder and you got to be engineer and all this other stuff and people kind of laughed at liberal arts degrees and and stuff like journalism.

Like oh, give me a break, right? Like you just wasted 4 years. Now all that stuff is coming back in vogue because IQ is kind of almost a commodity at this point and EQ is everything. So the ability to read people, the ability to ask better questions. So what were some of the things and and and just from my perspective, I kind of skipped through college. I was like yeah, yeah, whatever. You know, if I look back on it there was there was those foundational learnings, but I I I had a hard time looking at them back then.

Um was there something that stood out to you about journalism that that significantly helped you when you when you moved into your sales career? >> I think what was so brilliant about my course was it really dived into the culture culture impacts within society, why good journalism is important, media bias, and noticing when stories or views are very construed in one way or another. And that was one thing I really loved about my degree, and um there was so much around like women in the workplace, feminism, diversity, and I think stepping in to sales, there's a lot of that there, too.

I think what's so interesting, just like generally, is that women were the secretaries, we were the ones that did the memos, etc. And then it transitioned and actually being a journalist was a really male profession, which was really interesting because that was seen as more intelligent, and women couldn't couldn't do that. And so there was like so much like breaking down of stereotypes and things like that, and that's what you have in sales, as well. >> Yeah. >> Very much still the case where it is the majority men.

Um there's not as many female leaders, >> No. >> etc., etc. Um and I think that going into my working career, having learned how to study and understand media literacy and what's all being presented to you, definitely had a really big impact on me because I was very vocal as soon as I entered the workplace. I'm very vocal anyway. >> Smart. >> But >> [laughter] >> I think that when you're new, especially at 21, entering the you know, corporate you know, I've worked I worked in bars, I worked in nightclubs when I was at university cuz I [clears throat] needed money to pay my bills, cuz otherwise I couldn't.

Um and so I worked my whole way through university, then I go into a 9-5 job after being used to working 8:00 p.m. till 7:00 a.m. on the on the bar shift. Like it was such a difference. But it also meant that I was happy to say, "Oh, I don't like that. Why do we do it that way?" That doesn't make sense to me. Like, just out of interest, like, why do we do that? Whereas, I think a lot of people when they're that young and they're entering the workplace, they won't ask questions, they'll just do as what they're just do what they're told, basically.

Like, oh, yeah, that's just how things are. That's just how they are. And I I was not like that. I feel really sorry for my first manager. I honestly look back and I think, Mark, I'm sorry for what I put you through. Cuz I questioned everything. And that definitely came from my time at university. I think I learned a lot outside of my degree, not just in it. I think it was so interesting being with people that had parents that could pay for them to be university, could give them money every month, they didn't need to work, they could get on with it, they could literally just do their degree and then go out.

Cuz obviously we at 18 we can we can drink in the UK. So, everyone's pissed, >> Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. >> [laughter] >> Yep. Whereas, I was working 36-hour weeks and doing my degree. And I wasn't going out. I was the one serving them the alcohol in the bar. And I think that that taught me so much about money management, about managing my time, um the importance of what I'm doing, why I'm doing it. Whereas, I think none of my None of my friends didn't get that until they left university. I think they had the wake-up call there.

Whereas, I had that at 18. So, I think that also made a difference stepping into a sales career, for sure. >> Is that something now that you're a manager, is that something are there certain uh cuz I always say like being a waiter or waitress, like that that's a that's a green flag that's that's something I look for because you you have to adjust and it's about hard work. The harder you work, the more you get paid and you have to adapt and all that stuff. When you're looking to hire because you went from six to 40 uh at um where you are at now, and do you look for certain characteristics that that stand out to you?

I'll say cuz everybody's resume is going to be perfect these days with AI specifically. Um so, what are some of the characteristics you look for um that highlight this is this is somebody that that fits my vibe that fits the plan like what are we doing? >> [snorts] >> Yeah, I I love it when I hear that someone's worked whilst they went to university college like that says a lot to me because it means [clears throat] that you know that nothing comes for free. >> Right. >> You had to go and you had to go get even if your parents did support you and they did give you money but you still chose to go and get a part-time job.

If that was a Saturday morning at a coffee shop for 3 hours, you still chose to go and do that. That is such a good sign to me because it shows you've got there's something ticking there. You're already on it in that sense. So, I love that. Then when I'm having my conversations with people and I ask the the first question I ever ask is so how did you come across the BDR role? Tell me about about how you why you here. What what happened? And the answer to that also tells me a lot. >> Okay. >> Because some people will be genuine.

They'll be like I need a job. And so I started looking and I saw this role and based on what it sort of lays out, honestly, it seems like I can do it. I think that I suit it this role. And I'm like, okay, why do you think that I suit the role? Tell me did it it. But then you get some people that are like I just think that the BDR role is great. Why? Why is it great? That doesn't that doesn't answer my question. Like give me more. >> Yeah. >> And then my favorite is when people are like, oh yeah, like my friend does it.

>> Mhm. >> Okay, so what is it? So, just because your friend does it, why do you think you're going to do it? Tell me about your friend. >> Yeah. >> What what what about your friend says that that means that you're going to get this role? Tell me about that. And their answer to that tells me a lot. So, I always tell my interviewees that. And then as I'm digging in one thing that I start doing on interviews is I actually give them live feedback and how they respond to that feedback says a lot to me as well like, okay, are they coachable?

Are they open to learning? Do they you know, want to develop? That's all there just in that first conversation. And I'm sure a lot of managers will agree with me on this, but there's also just a vibe. And I hate saying that >> [laughter] >> because it's like >> That's true. >> You can't write that on the interview feedback. Sorry, you just didn't match my vibe. But >> Yeah. >> when you're chatting to someone, I think it's the same as when you're speaking to someone and you're like, "Oh, you're a bit rude." Like you can just tell there's something about them.

And I think I'll be on an interview with somebody and their answers will just be like that little bit too vague or I'm not feeling enough of that oomph towards it. And you can tell that they have applied for this role because they needed a job, not because they wanted the job. And that is They're They're They're two different things. Um everyone needs a job. We all got bills to pay, but I want you to want this job, not just have the job because you need a job. And when I feel that, I'm like, "No." I always say as well, um I do not want to work with a dick.

I say that in every interview. I go, "I don't work with dicks. I work with nice people." You could be the best person I interview and I think that your skills going to match up with everything, but if I don't think you're going to be a nice person, um you're not on my team. >> No. >> That's so important to me as well. What are you bringing to my team? What's the culture that I think that you're going to keep creating? Because yeah, that can ruin a team so fast, so so fast. >> Even yeah, top performers specifically even.

Um and and I It's funny cuz you bring that up, but you know, that translate that I make I call the give-a-shit factor, right? Which is >> Yeah. >> You know, when I talk about sales and you know Morgan Ingram, right? I tell this story a lot. Um you know, he he was working for me and uh he was my first hire uh as when I was doing what I was doing. And you know, he was doing great. He was SDR SDR manager, right? And he And then he kind of leveled off. He was doing all these cadences and they were great.

And uh and he came to me, he goes, "John, I just I I'm not getting the results. I I feel like I'm doing all the right things. I'm not getting the results. What do I need to change? And I said, "Morgan, your results aren't going to change until one thing does, man." He's like, "What?" And like, "Until you start giving a shit." >> Mhm. >> Until you start giving a [ __ ] And I don't I mean I I know you give a [ __ ] about this job, but until you start caring about the client and and stop teaching, you know, treating them like a number to hit, a cadence to send, a call, whatever.

It's until you start thinking of them as a human who wakes up in the morning, has to put their kid on the bus, has to drive in traffic, has to go to work, has to get their boss yelling at them, has a million different [ __ ] priorities on their plate that are more important than your [ __ ] cold call. Until you start thinking of them that way, man, it's not going to change. And I And the same thing with interviews. I can get I can sense the give-a-shit factor from a mile away. Like, is this kid a a a professional interviewer that's been on 10 interviews and has got the perfect answers, or did they give a [ __ ] enough to do and ask real questions?

You know, like come in prepared, not just prepared, but curious. What I would Cuz everybody interviews perfect, right? Or they most people Some people. Best answers, all this stuff. But then you put them in a scenario, coachable scenario. And I What I would do I was like, all right, whatever you're selling. What do you What What did you used to sell? Okay, cool. Um I'm going to go in the other room. I want you to cold call me. Uh and and all I want you to do is get a meeting. I'm your perfect ICP.

I'm your perfect ideal customer profile. And all you're trying to do is get a meeting with what you currently sell, So, they'd do it. Okay, fine. I'd come back. I'd give them feedback. Whether it was good or bad. I I didn't care if it was a train wreck of a of a call. But if I give them feedback, I'd be like, all right, now here's a scenario. I'm now working for my company. This is a right? And you're trying to sell my services to this whatever. Have them make the call again. >> Yeah. >> And I didn't care if it was awesome.

I just cared if they paid attention to what I told them. >> feedback. No, it's so true. So true. And I think what I love so much about the team that I've built here uh in comparison to like previous teams I've managed is exactly that. They really give a [ __ ] about what we sell. And they really give a [ __ ] about the team. They all care about each other and they all want to win together and they celebrate and they love it and every product release that comes out, everyone's buzzing about it. They're like, "This is amazing." There's just such an energy around being at work, being a team, working together that I've never experienced uh before the way I have in previous roles.

And on that also like giving a [ __ ] feeling as well it's so interesting because I've had people start that were hired by other people and my first conversation with them I'd be like, "No." They were a bad hire. And I've instantly messaged and been like "Giving you a pre-warning. I think they're out the door in the next few months." "Oh, why?" Got the feeling. And I've been right about everyone. I think that if you are a leader you need to learn your radar. >> [laughter] >> You've got to find your radar because once you have it it makes hiring and it makes letting people go so much easier because you just know it's the right decision.

There's been people I've let go that I love as people. I think they're amazing. They're fun. They're brilliant to work with. Great colleague. They're no good for the role. They can't do the role. It's not for them. As much as they want it to be for them because they want to make the money they're not making the money because it's not for them. So, do them the justice. Let them go find something else. Like that's actually a good service you're doing. Totally. And yeah, I think that like just that as a whole is just so important.

Even like falling into the conversation about "What do I see working now?" Hiring. It's so important in that in that conversation. Like good team Yeah. huge difference. huge >> the difference in the world. I mean, it really does. And and so that's why they you know, the managers that outsource the hiring component of it to HR or somebody else or or just are like a cog in the wheel of yep, okay, I did my interview, whatever, tell me who we're hiring. I I think that's just a fool's errand. I don't care how busy you are.

If you're not making time to get to know the people that are going to be on your team that you're going to be managing and making sure that not only are they good at whatever they can do, but are they Do they align with your values? Do they check you know, do the vibe check? Do they have a give a [ __ ] factor? Those pieces, the subjective pieces that you can only gather by you know, meeting somebody and spending some time with them. Almost [snorts] all my final interviews were at lunch. We would just go to a bar and and we'd just like shoot the [ __ ] And it was like I just got to get the vibe check on you because if the vibe check is cool, we're good.

But if the vibe check is not, I'm sorry. Uh so So with with your first cuz your first um was it to How do you pronounce that? To Yeah, yeah, yeah. That must have been a brutal cold call. Um so >> [laughter] >> say it. [gasps] So what what made you choose that company? Like what was your criteria cuz it you you've obviously picked a winner here with Swag, right? I mean you There there's something about what you guys are doing. Outside of being great at being an SDR and having a cool vibe, this company is pretty badass and it's done some It's doing some super cool [ __ ] And it's always easy a little bit easier obviously to sell something that's cool as [ __ ] and hit the market at the right time right now.

So let's put that caveat over here. But you know, what were you looking for? A lot of kids out of school, they're just looking to your point, they're just looking for a job. And and and they're just like I I whatever, okay, fine. I'm just looking for a job. Was there something about that company that that you said I want to work there or were you kind of typical kid looking for interviews, you know, open opportunities? How did you How did that How did you find this? >> Yeah, so by the time I actually interviewed at TopFunnel, I'd been an SDR for 3 years, which in SDR land is a long time.

>> What were you doing before that then? >> I've I've been at a few places. Um I was at a uh I was My first SDR role was somewhere called QueryClick, which wasn't actually a SaaS solution. It was like a paid ad agency, very strange role. Um and that's where I had my brilliant manager, Mark, poor guy. Um >> Okay. >> And I loved working there. The people there were brilliant, but it wasn't a SaaS. It wasn't a SaaS solution. They were like creating something, but it wasn't actually ready for market yet.

And so I was like, "Okay, I need to move into another role." >> Yeah. >> So, moved into a different company, which was influencer marketing. So, this was back in 20 beginning of 20 uh no, end of 2020 was when I joined the influence marketing. So, it like that's when influence marketing was just transitioning. It was just really becoming something, but it wasn't quite there yet. The company were ahead of their time, unfortunately. They actually did go bust in the end. I think they just had an idea that maybe if they'd created it in like 2021, they might have seen a whole different type of uptick, but unfortunately, they were just a little bit a couple of years too early.

So, I left there and I went to somewhere that was called originally Art Tanden. And it was HR tech. And I was a lone SDR. It was me and my lovely AE, and I was just ringing HR people. >> Yeah. >> Hey! Fancy, you know, giving good employee experience? Um and it was about reviews and actually having like a good review process cuz obviously everyone gets their bi-yearly or yearly reviews, and it's really bad process that it does. That's what the the tech was. It was amazing. I loved it because it really allowed you to give good feedback, which is I think one thing that a lot of people miss.

They don't get good feedback. So, loved selling that solution. It was brilliant. And then they got acquired. >> Okay. >> And in an acquisition, it goes one of two ways. It's amazing, or it's not great. And unfortunately, >> it wasn't great for me. >> Yeah, usually it's the other side. >> Yeah. So, I at this point had been a BDR SDR for 3 years, and I known in about in the last year I wanted to go into management. I decided like okay, I don't want to be an AE. I just looked at that role and honestly nothing about it appeals to me.

I don't get it. I don't get you lot that love it. I think it's an awful role. Um that's exaggeration. I just I love I love people. I love coaching. I love saying to somebody give that a go, they do it, they win. That really fuels me. And you obviously there's elements of that as an AE, but like that's not really the job. The job is you know, selling. >> Close, yeah. >> And I just knew I just knew I wouldn't like it. I I was self-aware enough to know that. So decided okay, it's I I I want to go into management and that was not an opportunity for me at all um at my place once it'd been acquired.

And so I started looking. And I kind of knew there was a chance I'd probably have to be an SDR again. Because a lot of places won't hire you fresh as a manager if you've not done it before. Cuz it's a risk, right? Which is fair enough. I got so lucky. >> is a whole management is a whole different ballgame. Like teaching people how to do That's why it's always horrible when I see companies promote like their best whatever to be the manager. I'm like uh Usually the best of whatever it is is going to be a terrible manager because they're good for for subjective for for just innate reasons that cannot be transferred in a lot of ways.

You want I always look for the B B+ rep to be the manager. The the one who can >> And I was a B player. >> Right? Same here. Like I was BB+ rated. Yeah, same here. >> Yeah, I will completely always I was never an A player. I was never the person that was smashing my target 200% like I did what I needed to do because I was doing a lot of stuff outside of work. So I was posting on LinkedIn. I was a part of SDRs of London. I was doing some mentoring to some newer SDRs. And I was loving that. That's where I was like I was doing all my passion stuff there.

And I basically met who would become my manager through the community at Sales in London. And I actually was interviewing for a different role. It was like a team lead manager style role. And I'd messaged her cuz she was a manager and I went, "Hey, I've got this interview. I would just really love it if you gave a once over on my case study because you're in the role, so you you know, can help me make sure I'm on the right track." She was like, "Yeah, cool. Like no problem. Like let's take a look." Went through it.

Da da da. She was like, "Yeah, great. Like good luck." I was like, "Thanks." She went, "Oh, by the way, like feel free to say no, but I'm actually hiring at Pendo. Like are you interested?" And I was like, "Sure. May as well. Why not?" >> Right. Why not? >> And did this whole interview Did a whole interview process, which at the time was a manager interview process, but I was told it was a senior SDR process. But I was like, "It's fine. If I've got to go like stay to go up, that's cool. Like it's about long-term career." >> Yeah.

>> And then got offered up the job. And then about 3 weeks before I was meant to start, she rang me and was like, "You're joining as a manager, by the way." And I was like, "What?" Honestly, like crazy crazy. And so I joined. I started as a manager. And yeah, like love it. Love it so much. But those first 6 months were definitely the most terrifying 6 months of my entire life though. >> I was going to say what like it's a shift, right? Especially brand new, don't have a lot of guidance. I'm guessing they probably didn't have a manager training program in the organization to teach you how to be a manager.

>> No, it's true. >> Um were you Were you a player coach or were you a manager? >> Just a manager. So I've only ever been a manager. I don't have been a player coach. Um which is the right way. As someone that's a manager, I literally cannot imagine people that are player coaches. Like I don't know how you're doing it. That is like you cannot be doing your job properly. Like I feel so sorry for you if that's your case. Um because I don't have time as a manager, let alone if I had a KPI in my head as well that that was a cool like But But yeah, so yeah, I I first 6 months were terrifying.

Uh really struggled to take feedback on cuz it felt really personal. Um which is one of the biggest lessons when I first went into management was learning how to take on feedback because it's different feedback as a manager. Like You've got someone in your team being like, "Oh, I didn't like the way you did that." And it's like, "Oh, but I did that to help you. Why did Why would you mean you didn't like it? I was trying to help you." And it's kind of learning that everyone responds to coaching differently.

Like the way you approach some people isn't how you would approach everyone. You could have the same structure, but you have to adapt it. So yeah, that first like 6 months of management was was such a such a journey. And the reason I chose to PEO was it was the opposite of what I'd had before. So they were quite established. They were at this point series F. Like it was, you know, very far down. Um you know, been around for 10, 11 years. Um knew what they were selling. They were growing in London, so it had a startup vibe, but then it had all the security of a large business.

So it was just quite safe, basically. And I'd always been in these really small startups, me, one other person, really scrappy. And I it was the honestly the perfect environment for for learning, actually. I got I did get so lucky, I have to say. I know that people make their own luck, but that was luck. Like I you know, who would have thought one text about a whole different role would lead me to where I am. So So yeah, and then was there for 18 months. Yeah, a year and a half. Um and then they started going really into that big that big size.

They're like, "Now they're a business." And that's when the Oh, I can't just create a sequence >> [laughter] >> do a skiff. And then you're like, "Oh, I'm finding that quite difficult actually. I'd really quite like to sort of just try things and see if it worked." >> Yeah. >> And that's where I got lucky again. >> Yeah. That's what Yeah. >> So, here I am. >> So, SWABS obviously are rocket ship right now with what you guys are doing. Um 6 to 40 skilled, right? >> Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Crazy. >> Um Let's talk now about what's working.

Because there's a lot that's not. And there's a lot of SDRs right now that are seeing conversion ratios go down, uh you know, conversations go away. Their metrics are getting crushed. And And I think this we've indoctrinated I feel bad to a certain degree because I think over the years we've we've gotten away from coaching. We've gotten away from what I would consider the art of sales. And we've taught too much on the process. We've taught too much on the the tech stack, right? And not a way to have a conversation.

And now we're seeing the results of that cuz we turned a lot of these unfortunately SDRs and BDRs into robots. And now, quite frankly, they're getting replaced by robots. So, with the advent of AI and how {quote} {unquote} good it is, cuz I used to make fun of like personalization at scale. Like, shut the [ __ ] up. Just because you change the name, the title, and the industry doesn't mean it's gotten personalized, right? But now AI is getting pretty damn good at at the personalization, picking up these trigger events.

So, what are you I want to talk about your your approach to coaching, but I I want to get tactical right now on what What is working? What's your approach to adjusting and being agile in this environment? I know you said something about like you pick what your CEO's priority is for 6 months and you like kind of hyper focus on that with the whole team around it with messaging and LinkedIn and everything else. But it's things are so dynamic right now and they're changing so rapidly. What What structure are you Let's start there.

What structure do you have right now to test and see what is working and and make adjustments so that you know just keep you know doing the same thing over and over again. >> Yeah, so the the way that my reps get their their accounts is they don't find their own accounts that spoil and they get given accounts. So every quarter, which we're switching to every 6 months, they get new book of business. But they get to lock accounts they had in the previous quarter that either were really good conversations or they really keep but there's a limit they're only allowed to lock a certain amount.

They lock those accounts, they get a new fresh book of business which is done by RevOps. So RevOps go and they use all of their tools to scrape and do it I wish I could tell you what they built. Don't have the option to >> Play and all the wonderful things. >> Yeah, they've got a lot of things happening but they go and they pull these accounts for us and the BDRs will have them and then they have a quick period where they have to go through them, dispute anything that doesn't like is actually a good account because it's still AI, still makes mistakes.

And then that's their book of business and that's all they work for 3 months. So my reps are also on quarterly targets which very rare for BDRs, most BDRs and SDRs are monthly. >> Yep. >> And I love it because it really allows them to fail. >> Mhm. >> Because they're not stressed. Because e.g. take April, right? So in the UK we had a bank holiday and it was the Easter bank holiday so we had the Friday and the Monday off. >> Yep. Yep. >> It is the 15th of April and they've not had a single full working week yet.

Because of because of the way that it's just fallen for the month. So because they have quarterly targets it hasn't mattered that it's been a bit of a slower start which is good for me, it's you know, great for them, great for them. So that's the first thing they do. I honestly think if you're a monthly business and something's not working, genuinely like go and build a case study about switching to quarterly. If the A is a quarterly why can't your reps be quarterly? >> Yeah. That's I've always professed that you're putting too much pressure.

>> Yeah. >> much in short-term. That that and that makes reps kind of do some shady [ __ ] You know what I mean? Like they cut corners. >> well to feeling like they don't have enough time and feeling like they're under a lot of duress because you have to remember most these people are under 25. >> Right. >> Like if we were to take the average age of an of an SDR and BDR, they're probably 22, 23. You know, most of the time they're not in their late 20s or 30s because it's seen as entry-level role, which is not.

>> [snorts] >> But anyway, >> Let's talk about that for a second cuz cuz what do you tell kids? I always say like I lost everything in 2023. Like I went from 6 million and 20 employees to zero overnight. And and I've always sold, you know, but I you know, hardcore selling hadn't done in a while. Put my hat back on, went to work, cold call, email, LinkedIn, partnerships, everything. You can look back just February that year I did I did 27 47 meetings in in in February and 70 meetings in Q1. And effectively forced myself back into existence.

And I tell reps this all the time. I go, "Look, if I didn't have the skill that we're we're learning right now and I wasn't a master at it, there's I wouldn't be here right now. And if you master this skill, you'll never go hungry. And and as an AE, I don't understand the mentality of an AE who like is is expecting leads to come to them and and just close and they don't have to prospect. I I tell reps all the time. I'm like, "If you're If If I was a manager, which I thankfully I'm not these days cuz I'd get fired in a second.

But if I was and I had an AE sit in front of me and say, 'Well, John, the reason I didn't, you know, hit my target is because I didn't get enough meetings for my SDR.' I think before that phrase got out of their mouth, I'd fire him. Because why would you want to depend on somebody else for your success? So the skill that SDRs and the muscle that they build. So how do you get your team to understand that and not rush through that process to get to be a real sales rep. Like is there is that an expectation you set up front?

Is that what you do to coach them along the way and be like be patient, this is not something you're going to immediately jump to or try to skip through. How do you deal with that cuz it's so rampant right now with reps being like I just can't wait to be an AE or just like I'm just doing the bare minimum here so I can get to the next level. It's like slow down. You're going to have a 60-year career, a 50-year career. Right? >> It's so true. I I say it from the from the start. Anyone who knows me knows that I believe that a good BDR SDR is in seat for at least 18 months.

>> Okay. >> At least. I think that you should be an SDR BDR for 2 years because what you build in that role, exactly as you were saying, shouldn't leave. It should go into the rest of your sales career. And the best BDR and AE relationships are the ones where the AE is working alongside the BDR and multi-threading with them. They're the pairs that are booking the most meetings and having the most success because they're working together. And the AE is happy to pick up the phone, is happy to multi-thread.

They want to be another voice involved. They're like, "Hey, like what do you need from me? Like where which account's quiet? Like or which account have you like reached out to loads and different voice would help?" That is perfect. The AEs that sit back, like what normally got promoted too quickly because so because they didn't they didn't get there enough. And two, like they're they're lazy. Like you're not a good sales person because you're right, if something bad was to happen, what would they do?

Because their first reaction wouldn't be to pick up the phone. It would be blame. And that's what I stamp out with my BDRs immediately. One, don't ask me for promotion before a year. Don't even don't even blink about it, it ain't happening. Like it's a policy. When I joined the business, I said to my VP, I was like no promotion before a year. Don't care how good you are. You could join this business and you'd have been in SDR for 2 years. You just don't have to sit in your seat for a year. You've got to prove to me you have consistency because I don't want up and down.

I want steady. I want you to show me that you can do this job long term because everyone can have a good quarter. Not everyone can have consistent good quarters. Like that's a good sales rep. So say that up front. And then two, it's very much a case of like I don't do excuses. I do solutions. Like don't tell me what the problem is. Tell me how you're trying to solve it. Come to me and be like, "Hey Lauren, like I've tried this, this, and this. It's not working. I don't know what to do now." Great.

Now I help you. But it's when people are like, "Oh Lauren, that's not working." Did you check all the resources that are there that exist? Because like that you are these questions that are asked all the time? Probably not. Go do that first, then come back to me. Like have some self-reliance. Like learn. Like realize you can go and find the answer. >> That you I think looking through the notes you had said you had said something that I'm I'm a big believer in like know your numbers. Like your conversion ratios and that type of thing as a rep.

How do you teach them to know that because most reps take their $50 a day. Okay boss, I got to go do that. But I'm always like know your equation so you can manage up, right? Because then you become a manager's best friend. And And the reason I say that is it's as a manager it's kind of hard sometimes when you're sitting in front of rep and you not you don't know why they're not you know why they're struggling. So you tend to give your opinion of what they should try. going to go try that and it's not going to work because they're not you.

And then next week you're going to give them another one and they're going to try this and it's not going to work. And you're going to get frustrated. Whereas if they came to you and said, "Hey boss, um I've been looking at my conversion ratios and then every time I get to talk to somebody who is kind of fits our profile, my conversion to a S2, you know, is off the charts, right? But I just my convert like I got a 1% connect rate on my phone stuff here. Like I literally have to make 100 phone calls to even get one person on the phone.

If I could we work on that? Or I'm great at getting through gatekeepers. But once I get to a somebody who actually is meaningful like I I tend I tend to stumble. Could you help me with that? Now you're my best friend because I like So, how do you teach them the science of sales to to to understand those metrics so that they can own their own development in a lot of ways? >> I think it starts with the manager, and I think that's where a lot of reps unfortunately are failed. Because if you don't have a leader that will supply you with the tools of how to learn that, then you know, not every person is smart enough to go and find the answer themselves, unfortunately.

Like there's some people that are very good self-starters, but not everyone is. And people do need to be shown and and how to do it. And I think for me, I've got my dashboard, I've got every report on there. They see all the activity, they see the core conversions, they see how the most the average answers like most like disposition, sorry, that they they keep coming up. They see where everyone's at to target. They don't hide that, everyone knows. They see their conversion rate from meeting booked to qualified, qualified to closed one.

They've got all of that on the dashboard ready to go. Like I just it's provided for them. They don't need to look at it. And then you get tools that allow for easy for things. So, we use Nooks for our power dialing and our parallel dialing. And within that, you can literally go and you can search. Like what's the most common objection that I'm getting at the moment? And it tells them, and then they can go and they can look into it. And I think that if you teach rep to make data-led decisions from the offset, then it's very easy for them to like become ingrained in that approach.

Like if they know, okay, like I need to come to Lauren being like, yeah, like I'm not getting enough pickups. Like then I then I I show me that. Prove it to me. Give me the data. Because one thing I also say about BDRs is they're very good at having biased decisions. They they love to come to a conclusion. >> [laughter] [gasps] >> And they love to make decisions based on what they think and feel as well. >> Exactly. >> Like the amount of reps that I'll be like, "Okay, what are your top 10 accounts?" They'll be like, "Oh, it's this one, this one." Why did you pick them?

Oh, well, like that one's a really cool company. >> Mhm. >> Okay, but will they buy us? Like look at all of our customers. >> Yeah. >> Every single one. Do we have any customers that look like them? No. Okay, so what makes you think you're going to be the one to completely change the trajectory of this business and get that booked in? You might do, but do you think he's going to close one? Like do you think you're giving an opportunity to your AE or are you just booking a meeting? Cuz they're That's That's two different things as well.

And I think the you have they don't they don't know what they don't know and I think it's telling them things like that. Like build your top 10 based on what we know is a close one opportunity in our business. That's how you should build your top 10. Not just because you like the brand or it's a cool name or it's big because that doesn't mean that your AE's going to be able to close it. Like that's just but that's just bias and AEs love that. So, I think start start from there. Start as a leader.

And if you don't have a manager, because not everyone does or they're managed by an AE, so like an AE's not actually a manager, they don't actually know what they're talking about. Go and go and like find this. Go and ask for it. "Hey, how can I get my conversions? I don't know how to build the report." "Hey, like what do I do to like go and ask questions? Be that person. Be annoying." Cuz honestly, all that's doing is that point of managing up. It's showing the people up here that you care. So, even if they're not actually giving you the answer because they're too busy, they're going to go, "Oh, that was so interesting.

Like Lauren actually asked me for that." Like that's that's a really That's really cool that she did that. She's obviously thinking quite long-term here. So, I think start from there and then the culture kind of becomes quite embedded. Um at least that's what I've tried to do. They still reps it out, obviously. >> Yeah, of course. So, what's working right now? What do you see work right now? I mean, obviously email is is, you know, people saying it's a dumpster fire. I say, "Well, not really is because I still like really personalized, relevant, and timely stuff still stands out to me." >> I agree.

>> You know, the garbage doesn't. So, what are you finding is is kind of right now what where are you seeing results? >> Yeah. >> [snorts] >> It's in that hyper-personalized quality over quantity when it comes to email, for sure. Um the the emails that my reps are sending, there's not many. They're not bashing out 500 plus emails a week. They're probably sending 250, 300 because the emails are personalized. They've gone in and they are writing something that actually will be relevant to the person that they're reaching out to.

We do a lot of persona-based messaging. So, okay, they're in for us, one of our main job targets is e-com. So, they'll be like, "Okay, like what does an e-com person care about? Like, what do they actually give a [ __ ] about? Okay, they care about customer conversion. They care about the experience on the website. Da da da. Okay, so when you're writing your message, it needs to be in the point of view of what the e-com person's going to care about, not about what we like in our products." >> Right.

>> It's classic old-school sales. That's not going to get you anywhere. >> No. >> Tell me the pain that they're probably experiencing. Talk about what other people are doing and then say, "By the way, we actually help you fix this. Want to chat?" >> Yeah. >> Is this something that's on the on your radar? Something you're exploring this year? You know, open-ended call to action. Don't start whacking your meeting link in straight away. No one cares. Like, no one wants to meet with you when they don't even know who you are yet.

Like >> it's that it's that consultative like storytelling messaging. And I think what's so funny now is you know when something's AI. Everyone knows it now. I think this time last year people still hadn't quite cottoned on to what AI email was. I think you could still get away with it. >> Yep. >> You can tell AI. You can tell it in a LinkedIn post, in the comments, in an email. You can tell if your mate text you back and it's AI. You're like, "Why are you using [ __ ] ChatGPT for that?" >> Exactly.

Come on. >> It's so obvious. Like I Nothing makes me like cruel more when a rep sends me an email, "Hey, can I get some feedback on this?" And I read it and I'm like, "Why are you asking me to give ChatGPT feedback? I don't want to give ChatGPT feedback. I want to give you feedback." Stop like I think AI is fantastic for writing a sequence, putting a lot of depth into it, you know, going a little bit too much detail, probably oversharing, you know, more than 150 words, etc. And then go in, "Please take what I've put and make it more concise." >> Yeah.

>> Then it's your tone, your language, the way you speak, but concise, shorter, more punchier. Perfect. That is what AI is fantastic for. I hate it when people go in and they get it to write the entire sequence and they just add the odd bit in there. No, it doesn't work anymore. That's That's the opposite of what what I see working. And then the phone. >> Yeah. >> The phone doesn't go out of fashion. I have noticed a drop in connect rates. >> Yeah. >> In fact, I was literally looking at this from Q1.

So, our connect rate from Q1 was 8%, >> Yeah. >> which had gone down from I think it was 12% in Q4. So, we had a drop off, but our meeting rate went up. So, >> Oh. >> by 2%. >> Okay. >> So, we've actually gone up every quarter on meeting rate whilst our connect rate's been dropping. So, what that's telling me is that, okay, we're not having as many conversations, but when we do, they're good conversations. So, okay, get them on the phone. You've got a good chance of converting that now. That's really great.

So, now it's just getting them on the phone. That I think is just a problem with the time. They're just pinging left, right, and center. I get average five cold calls a day. I'm in back-to-back meetings all the time. I'm a manager. So, I don't not answer because I don't want to talk to you because I very proactively say that I will answer a cold call if I can. I literally went to cold calling. But, don't If I I just can't answer half the time. Most of the time, you're calling me in the middle of my work day.

I'm in a meeting. Why do you not call me on my lunch break? I don't get any cold calls between 12:00 to 1:00. >> Yeah. >> That's probably like the guaranteed time of me being able to pick up, and no one cold calls me because they're on lunch. Like, the reps that are going to book a meeting are going to cold call then. And I think on the phone point, what's not working is those generic cold call openers. Hey, have you got 30 seconds? >> Yeah. >> Uh that's not working as much anymore. The one I hate so much as a sales leader is, "Hey, um can I take 30 seconds?

I know that you probably hate cold calls." >> Yeah. Well, this is a cold call. >> me a manager who is proactive on LinkedIn talking about cold calling, and you think I'm going to hate cold calls. And I'm quite mean. I do literally say I go, "Did you do any research on me at all?" >> No. >> And they're like, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah." And I'm like, "Well, I think if you had, you'd have known that the one thing I do not hate is cold calls. So, I think you need to maybe like look a little bit deeper into your prospects before you cold call them." >> Yeah.

>> Sorry, sorry, da da da. But, yeah, I think that I think >> what are What openers What openers are working for you now? >> Um going in with a bit of research at the start. So, it'd be like >> But, how do you how do you like literally cuz I break it down by the intro, the the reason for your call, the call like So, that intro, that 5 seconds hello, do you go straight into, "Hey, there's a John Barrow of JB Sales, and I'm calling because I saw something on your website. Do or do you do the pattern interrupt, or do you kind of permission-based sell?

Like, what's what's the flow of that first hello? >> Yeah, I actually have them all do it a little bit differently, because I think it's really important for the rep to do what feels comfortable, because that's what makes the start of a cold call better. But, a lot of my reps do "Hey, how are you?" >> Okay. >> Which most people hate. >> [laughter] >> Love it when everyone says that, they're like, "Oh, why would you do that?" But, works for them. >> It it again, I always say, if it works for you, do it, right?

I you know, and it's also regional, and this is where like intros, as I as I train intros and cold calling, I'm like, "Please take this from a US perspective here, cuz this is what works and doesn't." Cuz I, you know, I I sold the vast majority of my career I sold into Boston and New York, the Northeast of the United States. And when I used to say, "Hey, how you doing doing today?" If I if I didn't get hung up on, I'd be like, "Fine, you know, fine what?" And I'd be like, "I'm sorry to bother you.

I'm sorry." Cuz cuz nobody And I didn't actually My problem with "Hey, how you doing today?" was I realized I didn't give a [ __ ] Because I wouldn't even sometimes I wouldn't even wait for the response. I'd be like, "Hey, how you doing today? I was wondering if you could point me in the right, you know, something like that." So, it was like it was actually disingenuous for me. But but different regions, different, you know, works in different areas. >> Yeah, whereas I think us Brits, we just we're always like, "Yeah, I'm good, thank you.

How are you?" And you you hear the tone. The tone will be like, "Who are you?" But, we'll answer, cuz that's just so British. But, what we then always do is go into that sort of like value prop bit. So, I'll be like, "Look, the reason I gave I've given you a call today, appreciate it's out of the blue, is that I noticed that on your website, your da da da da da, um just curious, like, how come is you guys are doing that today? Like, what what what's the reason? So, like always ending then with the question.

>> With the question. >> Um what I've noticed doesn't really work, and some of my reps still do it, and I'm really trying to stamp it out, is the like, "Hey, it's Lauren calling from Swap Commerce. How are you?" >> Yeah. Sorry, calling from where? Every time. Every time. Because they don't know who we are. And then you go SwapCommerce. And obviously they're like Swap? They're like what what do you want to swap? It's no sense to them because they're like why are you saying swap? What are you swapping?

I don't get it. And it happens every time. And then they spend the first 20 seconds of the cold call being like yeah, it's Swap. S W No, stop. Stop doing that. >> All right, you're giving me you're giving me PTSD cuz I my first When I was making 400 cold calls like back in the day like the company was Thrive Networks t h r i v e. So I'd be like hi, this is John Barrows with Thrive Networks. How you doing today? They'd be like Drive? Drive? Thrive? I'd be like No, Thrive t h r i v e. And to your point like now I'm just like >> Yeah, and then it ruins it.

You've lost them because [laughter] then they're just like oh great, this is a cold call. The wall of resistance is straight up. They definitely don't want to talk to you anymore cuz they're like brilliant, another sale. Like doesn't work. Like go go straight in. I don't care where you're calling from. They care why you're calling. I think it only works if you have got a household name that you're calling from. If you're calling from Salesforce, everyone knows Salesforce if you're in sales. That's a different situation.

Like if you're working for a big player, most of us aren't. Or we feel like we're big players. But we're still getting there, you know? Like I think yeah, that's so that's also something that's not working that I'm trying to >> Even even early days at Salesforce by the way, when Salesforce wasn't really a household name when I was training them, they would call and say hi, this is John from from Salesforce. And people would literally say, um I already have a Salesforce don't I what like what is who are like and so even then but now obviously household name.

I think a lot of people So that's why I don't mind this this one where it's like hey, this is John Barrows from JB Sales. Are you familiar with us? That one because you got to answer either way, right? You could be like well oh yeah. Oh well, you probably know me for the prospecting stuff. Do you know I also do negotiation, right? Or no, I have no idea. Well, real quick, the reason I'm calling is I noticed, right? So that intro though is an interesting one for the team to I always split test and try different ones for different people to figure out what works for you.

>> And that's exactly it. I think that every every rep sounds different and sounds natural. Like I've got someone who's from New Zealand and she does not understand British tone of voice. It's fantastic. Someone will be like quite they'll be in that like British like, "Why are you talking to me?" And she's just like And like she keeps them on the phone and she always has a really good call because they're like, "Wow, this person keeps talking to me." Because she's just not clued in on the fact they're being rude to her.

>> Love it. >> literally be listening to her cold calls and I'm like, "Did you not realize that they wanted you to like get off the phone?" And she's like, "No." And I'm like, "That is a superpower." And I love [laughter] that that is fantastic. >> I call that the you know Finding Nemo, you know that movie, right? >> Oh, yeah. >> You know Dory, right? Just keep swimming, just keep swimming. I have some friends who like don't let anything bother them. They just kind of keep going with the kind of eventually they break the person down to the point where they're just like, "Fuck, I got to talk to this person because they're either just so cool that they're so happy to be there." >> Yeah.

I think one thing that we do, sorry that I think is so unique and I don't know I haven't seen it much is LinkedIn social selling. >> Yeah, I was going to ask you about that. So, because in and let's let's talk about because the there's very little short-term benefit to personal brand building and that's why so many people don't do it. >> Yeah. >> And quite frankly, it takes a long [ __ ] time to to really like it takes a lot of two comments, three comments, four likes to get to a point where it's like, "Oh, I'm starting to see some traction here." So, how do you justify social selling um to a SDR who is is just trying to hit their number and thinking that you know if I post who gives a [ __ ] And and also what do you coach them on what to post?

Because most of them have this imposter syndrome like what who who am I to say anything? And you said something earlier about your management experience that I think that that you were like same thing. Who am I? I've never managed before but people would have loved to hear the journey. >> Yeah. >> So, could you talk to me about why an SDR 22 doesn't know [ __ ] should be posting on LinkedIn and what that perspective is and then what you think they should be posting? >> Yeah, so when I first joined the business, there was a few of them that were naturally posting on LinkedIn.

They were like started doing it. They were doing some fun videos and I joined and I think one of the things that attracted my VP to me was the fact that I had a personal brand. >> [laughter] >> I think he liked that. He thought great. I've got some people on the team that we've hired that already been interested in that. They're going to get a manager that already does that. So, that's that's quite a nice synergy. So, I join and the first thing I I say to my VP is like okay, like you want them to post more on LinkedIn.

I want them to post more on LinkedIn. What do sales people respond to? Money. We have to incentivize them. So, they're incentivized. They get paid. We pay them. So, the incentive is if you post 20 videos on LinkedIn in a quarter, you get an additional 2,000 pounds and in US dollars that's like 3,300 >> Yeah. Yeah. >> on your paycheck. That makes a difference. And in the UK, yeah. But in the UK, in the UK again, eight grand a year to post on LinkedIn. Basically. >> Okay, so now what do you post? What what do they post?

Cuz it can't just be swap and look how awesome we are and here's our new product release which is what so many fall into, right? Like oh look at how great our company is. Nobody gives a [ __ ] about how great your company is. So, what how do you coach them on what not to post? >> Such a great question. So, the way that we do it is 14 of your posts have to be related to the company in some way. >> Okay. >> And that's that's very broad. So, that can be interviewing um your colleagues about like how is like what's working for you right now?

Like what do you love right now? Um we've seen the like jokey Tik Tok trends where it's been like um uh tell me who's like got the best fashion sense. Oh, John. Go to John. John, who's got >> Yeah. >> that kind of stuff, right? Cuz it's about creating a moment. So, it's the same as like it is on normal social media. You want people to watch it and have a feeling about it. They're like, "Oh, this is fun. Like this is cool." So, things like that. Then when it comes to talking about the product, it's not about sitting down in front of the camera with your mic being like "Our latest product has this feature and this feature." You are literally doing an outbound email via video.

So, you're like, "You know, I've been chatting to loads of people recently who have really you know, they've really experienced this problem and this problem. Um you know, one thing that we do at Swap is we fix that. Da da da da." So, they're talking about pain in all their videos. And then on top of that, it is things like what have you learned this week? Personal like, you know, what's like a learning you're having? Are you doing a marathon? We love a day in the life. Like our reps love a day in the life.

Come to Swap because not only is that good for personal brand, it's good for employee brand. It shows the vibe. Like and it's so funny because they all get they get odd hate comments like, "Oh, it looks like you do nothing at work." And then I comment on them and I go, "Actually, as their manager, I can tell you they do loads of work." >> [laughter] >> I like that. >> I'm like, "Go look at my LinkedIn if you want. I'm doing three videos a week, mate. Like So, I think it's breaking it up into sections and I think you'll know this as someone that posts as well.

It's there's work content, there's development content, there's personal content. That's how I broke up my sections of my content to like come up with ideas. So, that's what I teach them. That's what they get taught. And then I let them have creative license with it, basically. And they just They just go out and they do it. And I think I actually I I I bring it up in my in the interview process. I go, "Oh, have you looked at on LinkedIn, by any chance?" And you can either see the panic set in their eyes, or you can see them go, "Oh, yeah, yeah, like you guys did those videos, right?" And I go, "Yes, what what do you think of the videos?" "Oh, yeah, like I saw on your LinkedIn." I go, "Great.

Did you go and look at any of the BDRs' LinkedIns?" And then again, I wait and I see if they say yes. And I go, "Okay, like anyone in particular that you really liked?" I get a bit I, you know, you've got to got to catch them out a little bit. Um but but most of the people that I've hired have all gone in and they can name. They can go, "Yep, I saw this person's content. I saw this person's content." And I go, "What did you think? What do you think about that? Like, how did it make you feel?" "Oh, like I thought it's really fun.

I thought it's really cool. Da da da." "Would you do it?" And I'm like, "Be honest with me, would you do it?" And I can tell if they're genuine if they say yes or not. You get the vibe. You're like, "Okay, like they're actually saying yes, or they're just saying it cuz they want the job." But I think that's something that if you want people to do personal branding, want them to post about it, you've got to you've got to bring it into the culture. And you're right, there's it's long-term game. You know, we didn't start seeing meetings fly in because of it in the first, I would say probably like 6 months.

But last year, easily, like I wish I could give an accurate percentage, but like there was a good chunk of our ops that came because of personal cuz of personal brand. People would say like, "Oh, yeah, like I've seen like some of your um colleagues like on LinkedIn that have made videos about your products." We've had a really, really big, pretty good household brand message one of the link like one of the reps being like, "Hey, I've been following your content for ages on LinkedIn. It sounds like um you could help us.

Can we Can we have a meeting?" And they were mas- and we were like oh my god like this is insane all from posting a day in the life. Like why is it relevant? Because it shows the humanity. It shows that you're not just sales person, you're a real person that works at this company. There's value behind what you're saying. People love working here and I think that when you want to work with a solution, you want to know that the people like that solution too. And I think that for every person that that that posts you can tell they love our solution.

Anyone that works here like you can get that energy from it which I think is is so nice. So >> That's fantastic. And that's it does go back to the caveat that I put on this on this of like you work for a kick-ass company. This got Sounds like it's got leadership aligned as well with that. It's not like a old school CMO who's like no you can't post that you know marketing is right. You've got to have a lot of all of that going on right. Which is why something got to have buy-in from leadership. And I think that's you know if I was a rep right now I'd be looking for that.

I'd be looking for okay you as a manager great but how does executive leadership feel about posting on social? Like what's the CMO's you know perspective on this and everyone's going on about AI right? AI here like AI's taking over like did it did it. Yeah cool like it's not going anywhere great. No one cares. But who's becoming our new leaders? Millennials and Gen Z. Where have they come from? The internet. The internet is important to them. They love it. They love being able to have fun with it.

They love creating silly videos. Like it means something to them. So if you alienate that from them in their work environment that's not going to go down well. I don't I think we're going to and that I think this whole attitude about like Gen Z are lazy, Gen Z don't care. Well, I've got a whole team of Gen Z and I can tell you it's the it's the polar opposite. My Gen Zs they care. They want to make money. They want to be good. They want to succeed. But they want to do it in a fun way. They want to have fun at work.

They want to be creative. They want to feel like they can learn and grow and make mistakes and that's in all industries. I don't think that's just because we're in tech where like there is a bit more like fluidity in it. I think that you're probably having the same thing in very old-school traditional industries like banking. Think about the amount of people now that go on social media and do videos and like what investing actually is, how to actually manage your money. Like they people want to learn this stuff and they care.

So, if you are a leader and you're not thinking about how you can embrace social media content into your, you know, younger workforces day-to-day. Like you're missing a trick cuz that's going to make them feel really valued, for sure. >> think that's the that's to me as a good leader versus a not good like somebody who recognizes that the way that it worked for them is not necessarily the way it's going to work for it. Like look, I'm 50, right? It when I got into when I got into sales, it was give me my territory, give me my quota, and please get the [ __ ] out of my way.

I don't need [laughter] the I don't need the fun [ __ ] I don't need the foosball stuff. I don't need to be feel like I'm getting invested in. I just need to go and make money. And I think there's so many kind of senior leadership now that still have that old-school mentality of this is oh, you know, you have to do these things. It's like dude, just level up right now. Like let just understand that this is a totally new world and if you can't adapt to these kids coming up and and meet them where they are, you're never going to evolve as an organization.

You're probably going to fail more often than not. So, yeah, uh it sounds like you've aligned uh you got a pretty cool crew that that is aligned up from the top down and uh and a good product and and a good uh mentality across the board. So, Lauren, this has been great talking to you. I really appreciate it. >> And yeah, I've loved it. Thank you so much for having me. >> Uh where can people learn more about the team, about you? I mean, obviously you're all on social, you know, social all over the place, but if people were listening to this and looking for >> get on LinkedIn, you'll find me.

So, yeah, I'm on LinkedIn, Lauren Reeves. Um I also have a little podcast as well where I I chat about my experience with another BDR manager. Um it's called Hi, I'm Can't Take Your Call Right Now, Yeah. Which uh I think it was his sister that came up with that. What could it could be a name and his sister was like, anyway. So, there's that. I've got a TikTok with hardly any followers. Um which is just Lauren Reeves again. So, if you want to add me on there, crack on. That'd be lovely. So, yeah, that's where you'll find me, but definitely LinkedIn.

That's where I'm definitely most proactive. >> Perfect. Well, Lauren, thank you again for coming on. I really appreciate it. >> Thank you so much. >> And everybody, hopefully you enjoyed the conversation as much as I did. Like I said, on all these podcasts, go out there and make somebody smile today cuz no matter how bad your day's going or how bad you think it went, if you make somebody smile today, you know you had a good day and the world needs a lot more of that right now. So, thank you all very much and I will see you on the other side.

>> [music] >> Hey, thanks again for listening to the show and for all your support throughout the years. This is one last reminder to check out my training programs at jbarrows.com or leave a five-star review on your favorite podcast platform or G2 if you've already gone through my training or sign up for my newsletter. Any of those will help ensure I can continue to bring you free content and great conversations like the ones you just heard without having to annoy you with sponsors. Again, let's make it happen in 2026 together.
