# Outbound Masterclass: The ultimate guide to building qualified pipeline in 2026 (Full Course)

**Expert:** Jason Bay

**Rank:** 1

**Metadata Score:** 110

**Published:** 2026-04-30

**Duration:** 02:42:22

**Views:** 623

**Likes:** 16

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jx9wDRmzcHs

---

# Transcript

Outbound is arguably harder than it's ever been. I don't really need to tell you that. You're here watching this master class probably because people aren't picking up your phone calls as much as they used to. When they do pick up, they're pretty annoyed. Second, they're probably not responding to your emails. And third, when you send them LinkedIn connection requests, that's not such a special novel thing anymore. There's three reasons why we believe that outbound is especially hard right now. So, the first reason is that buyers are inundated with options.

There are hardly any new categories. So, let's say you sell HR tech. You're probably aware that your buyer has literally thousands of different options that they can use for payroll, for benefits, to administer computers and devices, and all of that good stuff. So, what does this mean for you? There's a couple things. One, it's really hard to make a choice. So, even when a buyer wants to move forward with a solution, one of the hardest things right now for them is what solution do we choose? The second thing that makes that really tough is that statistically 56% of buyers according to Gartner experience buyer regret.

So in other words, they buy solutions just like the one that you're selling and they realize months in or a year after that they actually regretted purchasing that solution because it didn't really get the outcome that they wanted. So it's really hard to be a buyer right now because they're inundated with options. Second thing is economic uncertainty. If you're selling deals right now, you're probably hearing the word economy a lot. Buyers are giving it as a reason that they want to delay a purchase.

They're giving it as reasons that their CFO wants them to uh be more involved and to scrutinize the deal and to come up with a better business case. In America, we've had the longest bull run market in American history from 2009 to 2020. There was a little blip with CO there and then it spiked again through 2022. So, if you've sold during those times, there was a lot of budget that needed to be spent. Right now, your buyers are scrutinizing every single purchase and they don't have money to spend anymore.

Three is that attention is infinitely harder to capture in 2026. I would argue that some of the biggest gatekeepers in sales are not the assistants that pick up the phone or the customer service people. It's companies like Microsoft. It's companies like Apple. It's companies like Google. It's the US government. All of these organizations and these tech companies especially the multi-billion dollar organizations come out with all kinds of tools and features that make doing your job especially hard.

One of the more recent things would be the uh screener function on your iPhones where the AI will answer the call and talk to the person to see if it's a good fit and then transcribe it for you. So all of these tools make it really hard to get attention. The second thing is everything that you're competing with on someone's smartphone. There is unlimited amounts of things that a buyer can do to entertain themselves. So that's your Netflix, your Hulu, that's all the social media that's going to be consumed on their phone.

And then all of the communication, whether it be a phone call, a voicemail, a text, a LinkedIn message, an email, all of that is hitting their smartphone. So what's that done to Outbound? If you look at the stats up here on the screen, you can see that the average performer, whether it's email or phone, and these are both really large studies conducted by Gong, one that we did very recently with Gong and cold email, you can see that the average performer has a fraction of the success of someone that is in the top 25%.

So, what's this mean for you? Average no longer scales. You can't have average skill set and expect to be able to do your job effectively. If you're managing a team, they cannot be average. It just doesn't scale. Doesn't work anymore. So, before we get into the content of the master class, you might be wondering, you know, who is Jason? Who is Outbound Squad? Why should we listen to them, etc. What we've spent the last four or five years doing is working with over 200 sales teams. So, these are companies like Shopify, like Gong, like Ripling, like Zoom.

The number one problem that we have focused on is pipeline generation. So that's SDR teams and AEES picking up the phone, making more phone calls, sending more messages on social to secure that initial meeting, making sure it's qualified, and then turning that into qualified pipeline. Our average customer increases qualified pipeline by more than 20% within a 90-day period of working with us together. And we've trained over 20,000 reps across those 200 sales teams. what we're going to dig into this master class.

There are three key points that we're going to want to cover. The first is the foundation. So, the first thing I want to help you with is upgrading your approach. A lot of what we're going to talk about here is prioritization. Why outbound is really more about saying no and picking out what you will not do versus what you will do. We'll talk a little bit more about that later. The next thing we're going to talk about is messaging. So, if you've spent any amount of time in therapy before, you probably know what conversational narcissism is.

This is the idea that people tend to talk a lot more about themselves and center themselves in the conversation than centering others. How does that relate to sales? What do a lot of sales people like to do? We like to talk about our products, our services, what we're selling, why you should care about it, versus talking about the buyer's world, what their problems are, what their goals are, etc. So, we have some messaging exercises that we're going to use to upgrade your approach. The second thing that we're going to cover is what we call RTM or reason to meet.

This is giving your buyers a strong reason to take the meeting because that's what every buyer is thinking when they get your email, when you get them on the phone, when you connect with them on LinkedIn, they're thinking, why should I meet with you? If like I don't have a problem right now that your solution can solve, why should I meet with you? So, we're going to talk about what we refer to as the offer. The offer is the reason that they should meet. And the best way to think about this is what is the buyer going to get taking a meeting with you outside of learning about your products and services.

What's going to make that time valuable for them? The second thing we're going to cover in that section is triggers. So triggers and signals are these things that you can find around the company, things that are going on like hiring for example, that are going to make your outreach relevant. So not just I'm reaching out to people like you and companies like yours. I'm reaching out to you as an individual specifically because of this reason and it's going to dramatically affect the impact of your outbound efforts.

The last thing that we're going to talk about is worldclass execution. So I talked all about why you need to be a top 10enter and you cannot be average. We're going to talk about omni channel. So, what's the latest and greatest data share around how many times I should email someone, how many times I should call them, how many times I should hit them up on social, in what order, over what time frame. We're going to talk about soft skills mastery. So, how to be confident over the phone, over email, and then lastly, we're going to talk about what we refer to as the weekly rhythm.

So, how does all of that come together across your week so that you can manage your time effectively? So, if you follow this master class, you're going to walk away with a couple things. One is a differentiated approach that helps you stand out. So whether you are a rep watching this or you're managing a team or enabling a team, how can I stand out with my outbound efforts? Two, we're going to talk about messaging. So how to speak to what your buyer cares about so that they feel like you're a fly on the wall in their office.

The third thing we're going to talk about is modern phone, email, and social techniques like the latest and greatest strategies to help you break through. And then lastly, you're going to get a repeatable system that will produce meetings and qualified opportunities for you. If you're a seller, you've likely heard of Medic or MedPic or Challenger, one of many of these sales methodologies. With Outbound, there isn't really a formal methodology in place. You've probably been taught, much like I was, uh, hey dude, here's a list.

calls through the phone numbers. Uh, by the way, we built a talk track. Here's like a couple paragraphs on on what to say. Um, here's an email template or two. And there was no formal methodology, right? How do we think about the types of buyers that we're going to reach out to? How do we think about what to say? Not just a script, but what is the framework and what are some of the principles behind this? We really started to develop this when we started working with companies like Shopify. And Shopify came to us and this is a traditionally inboundled sales motion because it's Shopify, right?

Everyone knows who Shopify is. They're advertising everywhere. They get so much inbound and have so much brand recognition, but what they wanted to do is move up market. Might be a similar position that you're in right now to secure the enterprise logos and to get the enterprise buyer to take a meeting. They're not typically going to come through your website and fill out a demo request form. you have to go proactively start the conversations with them. So with Shopify, what we were really uh conscious about was installing a common language and methodology that their SDRs could follow, their account executives could follow, and we worked with their account managers as well to help with those cross-ell and upsell conversations.

So the common problem traditionally is that outbound has never really had a methodology like this. And what we're going to present to you in this module is the first and only outbound methodology that we call the outbound equation. So let's dig into it. So the outbound equation has three core parts. So sales orgs the common mistake is that they usually approach this in reverse order. So the very first thing we need to think about is what we call the foundation. These are the non-negotiable things that as an organization need to be provided to the rep.

Typically, when we hear companies come to us, they start with us in reverse. They want rep training. They haven't provided anything to the rep yet. They want us to teach them how to cold call, how to send cold emails, etc. So, we want to start with a foundation. There's three core components to the foundation. Uh, one, strategy. So, we need to provide things like ICPs and personas. Who's our ideal client profile? Who are the buyers that we should be reaching out to? What are common triggers that might be good reasons for reaching out?

If we were to prioritize the accounts, how would we score them? What makes a good account versus a bad account? Which ones should we reach out to? Not just because they have a well-recognizable name or logo. The sales math. What is the numbers behind the activity? So, when you're asking me to make 20 cold calls a day, like where is that leading me? because I don't just want to make cold calls, especially if I'm an account executive. I want to close deals. Like what's the math that I can reverse engineer to that target?

Uh the messaging, how you compensate, the strategy. We're going to talk a little bit about this and we're going to provide quite a bit of it during the master class, but we have to provide that to the rep. The second thing is process. That's playbooks. That's plays. Like we need to document the process. No different than having a workout plan, a meal plan, whatever it might be. You would never coach someone or be a personal trainer without providing some sort of process or documentation around what to do and removing the thinking around what to do.

Reducing the cognitive load around that. The third thing is tech. We're not going to really talk a lot about tech in this master class outside of AI, but you need a sales engagement platform. There are many of them. Outreach, sales loft, Zoom Info's got one, Gong Engage. There's there's a ton of different options out there, but we need tools that enable the activity and make it easy. We need LinkedIn sales navigator. We need to be leveraging AI which we'll talk about. So we need to have these three core parts in place.

The next layer of the methodology is org execution. This is primarily focused on the frontline manager. I interviewed Jonas Master recently. He's the VP of sales enablement at a company called Ripling. Uh when we started working with them, they had six enablers and they now have 36 that support 1,800 reps across the entire world. He said, "In any enablement initiative or training, your end customer is the frontline manager." The frontline manager is the person that's going to reinforce on a daily basis the training, the skills that we want the reps to develop, the tools that we want them to be using.

And he explained it best when he said, "Hey, as an enablement professional, what are the odds that you, one person covering 100 reps, can create change, ongoing, longlasting change versus a manager who is 1 to six reps, 1 to eight reps. So the frontline manager is everything. The first component of this is reinforcement. So manager coaching, facilitating what we call get done sessions. So doing the work with the reps, getting in the pit. The second thing is measurement. So, do we have really good reporting?

Are we looking at the effort that the reps are putting in, their efficiency, how effective they are? Do we have good dashboards and reporting that we can manage to? And the third thing is culture. This is really top- down participation. Our best clients, whether it's the clients as big as your Shopifies and Zooms of the world, down to your startups that are just getting their first SDR teams off the ground, senior leader participation's everything. The exec that brought us in is in those workshops.

You have to create a culture around doing the work with the reps and senior leadership has to participate in order for this to work. The third level is rep execution. That's probably why you're here in this master class and what we're going to talk a lot about. First pillar is productivity. Again, we call it the weekly rhythm. It's how to optimize your days and your weeks around pipe genen. If you're an SDR, that's pretty easy. That's that's your job, right? an account executive, you're selling most of the time and you might have only 60 or 90 minutes a day to be able to fit in outbound and pipe gen activities.

We're going to talk about how best to structure your week for success. Second thing is prioritization. We've talked about that quite a bit. Targeting, knowing where to spend your time and what to say yes or no to. And the third thing is the soft skills. This is an important part of the methodology in the equation, but it gets way too much of the spotlight. This is everything from how to use AI to your emailing skills, your phone skills, your social skills in person. Uh, honestly is a really big and great way to get meetings.

But the soft skills that is important, but we don't want to overindex on that. We need the other eight components of this in order for it to be successful. So, we're going to teach you in this master class a big chunk of the rep execution pieces. Disqualification is something that gets a lot of air time in sales, right? You're doing discovery, you should look for reasons to disqualify the deal so you don't waste your time. It's 10 times more important in outbound to disqualify early before you even decide to reach out to someone.

Outbound is really more about what you say no to than what you say yes to. I want to share a quick story with a company called Armis. We worked with their SDR team and one of the big things with their solution, they sell a security solution, was that there were so many different industry verticals that they were reaching out to and then four or five different personas. And as a BDR team, it's like how the heck do I wrap my head around all of this and what we had them do was really look at the data and say, "Hey, what are the top two industries where you land the most meetings?

And who do you typically get those conversations started with?" And that simple fix, just making sure that, hey, there are seven industries we could reach out to. Let's just focus on the two where we get most of our pipeline. That simple fix increased pipeline by 22% during the 90-day period that we work together just simply by fixating on lowhanging fruit. So, the common areas where you might run into challenges here, and one prediction, honestly, I can make with 100% certainty, is that outbound is going to get harder and harder and harder every single year.

You cannot treat your accounts like an assembly line. If you're just working the account list from top to bottom in alphabetical order and working every single account with the same exact effort, you're wasting weeks or even months on accounts and opportunities that will never take a meeting with you. So, we cannot work it assembly line style. The second thing is we really need to avoid analysis paralysis. If you've ever felt like, "Holy I have a 100 accounts to work with. Where do I start?" You're definitely not alone.

But we got to fix that. We got to remove some of the decision-m by giving you clear criteria, go no-go criteria, so to speak, that you can use to know like, I'm either going to take action on this and go all in and commit to this account or I'm going to do nothing. So, the solution here is what we call the martini glass-shaped pipeline. We don't want our pipeline to look like a funnel. We want it to look more like a martini glass. Okay, that martini glass is really about shrinking the top of funnel and deciding about where you're going to go narrow and where you're going to go deep.

So, in this module, we're going to help you develop a clear narrow ideal client profile and a short list of personas to start with. And this is going to help you prioritize your time so that you're not wasting it on opportunities that will never engage. The first thing that we want to do is look at account level fit. So, I alluded to this earlier in the story that I shared. This is best done not anecdotally, thinking back to what worked. You need to look at the actual data and the reporting. So, if you're a rep, that might be your 10 uh last closed one deals.

If you're able to look at this on an orgwide level as a sales leader or enablement professional, maybe that's your last two, three, four quarters. We're going to look at where we have the best case studies and testimonials, maybe big inbound deals that came in, and then repeat buyers. Specifically, the patterns we want to look for are a few things. Okay, one's ease of sale. So, I'm looking at highest win rates, largest deals, and fastest time to close. Where do we win the most? Who pays us the most?

And who pays us most quickly? Okay, so we want to look objectively at the data around that. The second layer is demographics. So this is going to be industry or subindustry or niche. So if I was to give you an example of that, instead of saying software companies, we might say fintech, right? Companies that sell financial technology versus SAS broadly. Okay, that would be an example of a subindustry or niche within SAS. So we can get really hypersp specific there. That really helps I find if you're selling enterprise or strategic.

You can go company size and headcount growth. So there are different bands. You might be an enterprise or mid-market rep, let's say, and maybe you don't have a lot of freedom around that. Revenue band is a great one to look at. Techstack. You might sell a specific solution that requires a customer to be using HubSpot or Salesforce, let's say. So I want to look at that. Maybe you're selling something that has to do with the number of locations. Maybe department size and growth uh of the marketing department or the security team or whatever it might be could be good indicators as well.

Uh geography if you're selling sled or federal geography might be really important funding. So I want to start to look at all of these patterns across the deals that we win the industries they're in the size of these companies other patterns and triggers that I noticed so I can start to create that ideal client profile. Lastly, this is more something that you would do as an individual rep is you might really narrow it down to where you have the most passion or knowledge. So, one of the companies that we work with right now, they sell media solutions to marketing professionals, marketing executives.

And each rep has got probably seven, eight different industries that they sell enterprise into. And a lot of times what they have found effectively is like, hey, what do we know the most about? Okay, you're really into like grocery stores. Oh, cool. Let's prioritize Aldi's and all of these other grocery stores that you're reaching out to, Wegmans, right? Walmart, whatever it might be. Uh, if you have industry knowledge in those and a clear passion for it, that can really help break through as well.

So, the first part of this exercise is I want you to pull those numbers and then narrow down the accounts that you're going after and you should have very clear ideal client profiles. Key point number two, persona level fit. Okay. So, we have to think very carefully about the people that we decide to engage at these accounts as well. So, generally speaking, we want to look at the persona and the role of the person. Later in this master class, we're also going to talk about how to find lowhanging fruit and and go even deeper with that.

But the key idea again here is let's reverse engineer our deals. There's three sort of basic entrance paths that are going to depend on on what you sell. A bottoms up approach. So this is talking to individual contributors and managers let's say at a company and gathering insights and then working upward. It tends to be a slower sale when we do that. But if you sell something very technical um like one of our clients for example sells a database solution. Another one of our clients sells a very technical solution to marketing ops professionals.

They typically talk with people that are engaging technically with that solution and experiencing the most day-to-day pain. That is usually the best place to start those conversations. You might do top down and you know obviously there's a combination of these that might apply. So some or all of these might apply to your situation but top down that's starting with a seauite then working your way down sounds really great in theory right I get the CEO to respond or the CFO if I sell something to finance professionals and they refer me down.

Oftentimes with top down, I think the thing to be careful about is if we don't have great insights, when we do get that individual on the phone and we don't have something really good that's insightful to share with them outside of what they've shared publicly, we could waste an opportunity. So that bottoms up approach and then bringing it to the top can work really well. And then there's middle out, you know, starting with directors and VPs. That's probably where most of you are going to want to get started is at the director or VP level.

So think about your entrance path and again reverse engineer the deals and think about how did my best deals come together? What was the sequence? You if I'm thinking about for me some of our best deals a CMO or CRO comes inbound because they've heard of us before and that that that's great. And then some of the other ones I think about oh a sales enablement manager who was tasked to find five sales training options came to us. we built a strong champion and coach there and then he or she was able to work us up through the rest of the company.

Like those are strong deals too. So think about how your best deals come together. The second part of this is classifying personas. I really do like Medpic and how they think about it for this. Uh there are champions and coaches. So who does the internal selling? Uh challenger calls this the mobilizer. So, the most senior person isn't always the person that helps mobilize the deal, put their reputation at risk by bringing you in, like lobby and champion for you in conversations outside of those sales calls.

These are usually directors and frontline leaders. These can be a great place to start with outbound. So, think about who the champions and coaches are in the deal. If you manage sales development reps or you are a sales development rep, this is something that you could work closely with your account executive on. There are economic buyers. The EB tends to be someone that's very senior typically in a seauite or at the senior vice president level. This is the person who owns budget and final approval.

And again, I think in theory it sounds really awesome to reach out to these people and get a meeting with them, but they're typically brought into the process later. this may not be the best place to start because these will be the hardest people to get a hold of and you don't have a lot of insights to share with them if you're talking to them for the first time inside of that account. The third layer is influencers and users. So, these are end users of your solution. Maybe they're managers. They may not be a big decision maker in the deal, but they could be a good place to start and gather insights to bubble up to some of the other folks.

And then there are blockers. These are people that you should probably avoid when reaching out. So unless you sell a technical solution, you probably don't want to get it on a sales call to talk about a solution that doesn't really impact them, more one that they would be concerned about implementing, right? So procurement might fit in this too. Unless you sell a solution to procurement departments, I wouldn't start the conversation with them. These are easy ways to get the deals blocked right away.

So I gave you some examples there from this module. What you need to think about is one narrowing down your ICP. So do the exercise, figure out, hey, what are the niches and maybe industries or subindustries that I really want to focus my time on? Here are the size of those companies. That's best reflected by the deals that I've been closing or that our company's been closing. Narrow down to two personas tops to get started. And what you're going to need for the next module is to pick three sample accounts or companies that you can use for the exercises.

There's two ways to approach outbound and selling. There's the push method, which I'm going to take my solution. I'm going to push it onto the buyer. I'm going to try to get them interested in my world and what we care about. That's features, functions, all of that kind of stuff. And there's the pull method. The pull method is instead of trying to get them in our world, let's meet them in their world first. Let's talk about what they care about, their priorities, their goals, how they get the job done, things that are painful or stressful for them, and then we lure them over to our world.

So, we start in their world first. So, the problem really is this. Uh, one, messaging is built from the inside out versus the outside in. So, in other words, we launch a new product and we think about the features of that product and then how to talk to the market about it versus thinking about the persona. Hey, who's our buyer? What are they buying? Let's say it's a VP of marketing. What do they care about? And how can we align our product to what they care about? So, we want to build it outside in.

When we don't do this, that's where you see emails fall flat. Even if they're like meeting the requirements around like length of email and all the guidelines that we're going to give you later in this master class, that's where the cold calls can fall short where the buyer just says, "This doesn't really resonate with me or they say send me an email and you don't get anywhere in the first 45 seconds of the call. That stuff falls really flat when we don't have really great messaging. So the solution here is to use what we call customer voice.

We're going to stop trying to explain our product and we're going to speak from the voice of the customer. All of the data supports this approach. Whether you look at the 300 million cold calls that Gong analyzed with 30 minutes to President's Club with problem based language being almost three times more effective than using buzzwords. We also found this in our study that we did recently with Gong in 30 minutes residence club on cold emails. Right? When we use buzzwords AI platform ROI, all of that stuff can decrease the reply rate of your emails by up to 57%.

Versus using priority based language. So things that are a priority for them, things that are common for the buyer to care about. So the outcome for this module, we're going to help you create a one-page messaging matrix for a primary ICP and persona that you can use that's going to translate into talk tracks and into emails. Key point number one, we want to leverage existing buyer language. I would have taught this module very different even a year and a half or two years ago. We didn't have all the great AI technology that we have now.

So in order to really help AI do its job, we need to spoon feed it really great information. It needs good intel to work with. So the best way to do this is to gather sales calls and recordings. So if you're an account executive, you're running these calls. If you're an SDR or BDR, you can go find some of the recordings. Find recordings of the buyer that fit the ICP and persona that you outlined in the previous module. find sales call recordings of those buyers talking about their problems, their goals, etc.

That's where the gold really is with this. The second thing is we can pull top reps emails and talk tracks. So, think about the folks that are the best at securing outbound meetings. We can grab customer success and implementation calls. If your company has done any customer interviews or fireside chats, let's say, we can grab that. If there's good marketing content or competitor case studies, you can do job descriptions, LinkedIn profiles, industry reports, maybe your uh marketing team has created something that has like use cases in it and then outputs and outcomes and things like that from those use cases you can talk about.

And then last but not least, if there have been any conversations with the internal buyer persona at your company, you can leverage that too. So for example, if I sell a HR solution, you know, conversations with our CHRO or HR managers or VPs of HR, that could be really helpful, too. So the first thing you need to do before you move any further is gather all of that great information in one place. Second thing we're going to do is build our messaging matrix. So just to give you a little hint at what's coming up next is I'm going to talk about how to use this with AI.

So, as you're seeing this on the screen, hopefully it doesn't overwhelm you with all of the the great information that's on this persona because we're going to leverage AI to help us with this. It's really important for you though that you know the four key components to great messaging so that you can do what we call red pinning. So, red pinning is this idea that, hey, AI, it's not going to do our job for us. So, in other words, it's going to get us 80 90% of the way there. We're not going to have to black pen it from scratch, but we will need to red pen and edit.

So you need to know what good looks like. The four components are this. First one's priorities. So what I want you to imagine is that the room that you're in right now or a Zoom meeting, let's say you're doing, if there are a dozen of the persona that you outlined sitting in that meeting and you were asking them questions like, "What's top of mind for everyone right now? What are you most worried about? What's most important to you? Um, if you had a whiteboard on the back here with your top priorities on it, what would be on it?" You're going to ask them questions like that and I want you to imagine what kind of answers you would get.

If you're an account executive and you're working deals and you're creating business cases, let's say, and you're like, "Oh, here are clear priorities." So, for us, it's not just revenue and pipeline. A lot of times what the sales leaders are saying is things like AE self-sourcing. We need to get our AES to rely less on BDRs and marketing to hit our pipeline targets. That's an example of a priority. So think about what the common priorities are that your buyers have when they come to you. Like what business outcome are they trying to accomplish.

Second thing is current solutions. So current solutions are typically people, process or technology and it's how is the buyer getting the job done right now? So they have this priority. How are they getting the job done right now? So if it's AE self-sourcing that we're using as the example, what they might be doing right now is, you know, running enablement sessions. They might be purchasing tech to enable this. There's a bunch of things they could be doing. Maybe there's a mandatory prospecting block that the entire org does every Monday.

So those are current solutions. The next thing is problems. So how does this current solution make it harder for the buyer to accomplish their priority and what's the impact of that? So if I were to use that same example, a self-sourcing is the priority. Let's say that we're running a weekly mandatory prospecting block as the current solution. And maybe the problem is is that everyone hates these because they're not effective and there isn't any true enablement training or content or coaching that actually helps them do this effectively.

So essentially what we're doing is we're taking our entire sales team off of the sales floor for four 6 hours 8 hours in a day and they're getting very few if any results. Lastly is aspirations. So, what you want to think about here is 6 to 12 months after they purchase your solution, what outcome does the buyer want to achieve in order to feel like they got a great ROI? It's a great discovery question to ask. By the way, hey, let's zoom out. Let's pretend it's 6 12 months from now if you purchase our solution.

What would need to happen in order for you to feel good about the ROI that we were able to get for you? So, if we're using that same example, AE self-sourcing, we're running these weekly prospecting blocks. Uh, no one likes it. they're not effective, we're not generating pipeline. Maybe the aspiration is our AEES um have the enablement, training, coaching, and reinforcement and accountability that they need from their frontline manager to effectively produce pipeline and reduce reliance on SDRs and marketing.

So, there's an example here on the screen and there's a bunch of examples below that you can click on for a VP of clinical operations. So, just to kind of get outside of the sales persona for a second, what you can see with the VP of clinical ops, one of their big priorities is starting studies. So, these are people that work at companies that sell a medical device. That medical device, if they do a study and can prove scientifically that it can, you know, lower your blood pressure, let's say, it's going to sell like hotcakes.

So, they want to start these studies and they want to quickly enroll participants to start as quickly as possible and get their product to market. current solutions. They might be using paper or databases like Excel. They might be using a competing survey tool or maybe they're outsourcing it to a consulting firm which is referred to as a CRO. Problem paper systems create a lot of manual work and databases create a lot of double data entry. Competing tools require a soft team to build, customize, maintain.

They're very expensive. Three, outsourcing is expensive and it could be a 3 to six month delay. What is their aspiration? They want to start studies ahead of schedule so they can get their product to market faster. Okay, so priorities, current solutions, problems, aspirations. Next up, let's build one of these for your personas. Part three, let's talk about how to leverage AI to help with this. So, the messaging that I just showed you in the examples that you saw, these literally take an hour to produce for each of our clients.

and we hop on a workshop with like 10 or 12 of our clients on there and it takes an entire hour to build that and then we have to edit it afterwards. I want to give you something that you can use that will produce results in a couple minutes if you do it properly and then you might spend 15 or 20 minutes editing it. So the prompt that you see here, you can literally copy and paste this into Perplexity ChatgBT Gemini, whatever you're using. You're going to take all of the resources that you collected in that first part.

You're going to upload it and then you can literally copy and paste this script. It's going to outline the priorities. It's going to outline the current solutions, the problems, the aspirations. The only thing you need to do at the very end where it says this is for, put your company name in there, what you sell, who you sell it to, give it your website, and insert a few customer examples. What you should have, run those AI prompts, and create at least two personas because we have three sample accounts now.

You should have two personas of messaging for the messaging matrix. And that's going to tee us up for our next lesson. Buyers would prefer not to meet with you even if they want to buy your solution. I mean, the data doesn't lie on this. 75% of buyers, according to Gartner, would love a rep-free buying experience. So, if they could buy your stuff, me included, and they did not have to interact with you to buy it, that's exactly what they would do. So, what's this mean for outbound? What this means is that you need a strong reason to meet.

If the buyer is not actively looking for a solution, that doesn't mean they don't have a problem that you could solve, but they're not going to want to take the meeting to do a demo of your solution or to talk about your solution. They want to take a meeting to get value. And we're going to talk about what value means because that word gets thrown around a lot in sales and I'm always wondering like what the heck is value? What do people mean by that? We're going to talk about what that means today.

One of our previous customers, a company called Path Robotics, uh they put this into action with a lot of success. They had an SDR team who was struggling to engage senior manufacturing and operations professionals. So think the largest manufacturing companies like trailer parts, semi-truck parts, all kinds of stuff that you can think of in the world. That's their buyer. So they sell both hardware as a service and then software as a service. It's an automated welding solution. So their SDRs got really good at selling what I called the blind date.

So the SDR would say, "Hey, I'm actually going to put you in touch with Dave. Dave has about a decade of experience working with companies like Caterpillar and a few others. And he's going to walk you through how they're automating some of the traditionally very hard to automate welding parts. And the second thing they're going to talk about is the welding shortage. So how companies like them are dealing with the shortage of labor right now and what you can do to automate some of those parts. So I've not just said we're going to talk about Path Robotics.

I've said here's the person that you're going to talk to and here's the experience that they have. like buyers were chomping at the bit to meet with them to talk about that. So, here's the problem, right? Statistically, your buyers have been burned many times before. And I'm not just talking about buying something that they have buyers regret around. I'm talking about attending sales meetings with people like us and then feeling like it's a waste of time. Over half of buyers experience that. And like I alluded to earlier, most buyers aren't actively buying.

So, we have to have a great offer. The data shows that especially in email, we just ran a study with Gong, the reply rate will increase by more than 28% with the presence of a compelling offer. So your takeaway here in this module is I want you to walk away with at least one good offer that you can use immediately after this call to improve your odds of booking a meeting. So there's three key types of offers. One is what I call the good offer. We're going to do a good, better, best. Okay? It's the blind date.

Regardless of what you sell, every single one of you can immediately start selling the blind date. So there are different types. I gave you an example earlier. There is the SDR that is selling the account executive. So if you're an SDR, what you want to think about is what's the bio of the person that I'm setting meetings for? How long have they been in the industry? Who do they sell to? What logos have they closed? These are all things that you can use to hype them up. If you're an account executive, you can sell yourself.

I see this often times with edtech, let's say, where I'm calling on people in the education space and I'm a former teacher. I should say, "Hey, by the way, I was a former teacher. I can share firsthand some of the things that I saw as a teacher and the value that a lot of our teachers are getting out of this solution, right? So, I can sell myself. Um, you can sell the solutions expert. We have a client that sells cyber security solutions, right? They often times bring a technical person onto the first call.

sell that person's expertise. There's another client that's database solutions. It's very technical. Again, you can bring a technical person onto that first call and I want you to hype them up and talk about what they're going to learn from that experience. And then there's lastly selling power to power. So, if you're setting up a meeting and it's with someone senior, you could offer to bring that equivalent on your side. So, if you sell to marketers, let's say you're and you got a VP of marketing to take a meeting, you could offer to bring your VP of marketing onto the meeting as well.

So that's the blind date. Think about how you can sell and hype up the person or persons that the buyer will be meeting with. Number two, the better option. These are typically one to many insights. So I'll give you an example of something one of our customers did. They were selling to e-commerce companies and it was a lot of like outdoor brands. So think like um you know Patagonia, uh think about Northface, Colombia, etc. What they did with their marketing team was mystery shop 300 e-commerce companies and they built a database that had everything from like typical response times via chat to the channels they used to the hours that they operated in.

And what they're able to do with that was really cool. So they would cold call folks and be like, "Hey, this is so and so from XYZ company. We actually mystery shopped uh Patagonia and we noticed that your response time via chat was about twice as long as North Face and Columbia and I have a hunch that might be affecting the sales and the conversion rate on the website right now. Do you have a minute for me to share more about why I was calling you? So immediately they would get an emotional visceral response from the buyer where they're like wait who are you?

What did you do? They're tuned in. So that's a great way you can use one to many insights. Other examples of that are benchmark reports, best practice guides, maybe there's just many research pieces that you guys have done for webinars. There's all kinds of like education that you can share with people on the marketplace, state of cyber security, of cloud, of graph databases, whatever it might be. You can build some of these insights as well and they're very very powerful. The third type of offer in the best category is onetoone custom offers.

This is primarily going to be an enterprise and strategic move. So I give you an example of this. We worked with a company that sold e-commerce solutions and what they would do is a lightweight checkout review. So they could actually experience the brand. So they would go on to like Patagonia's website, let's say, for example. they would add something to the cart and then notice that, oh, I didn't get any emails or texts when I entered my email and phone number and I didn't buy something. Um, or hey, I bought something but it didn't offer any upsells.

So, they could reach out to the buyer and say, hey, I noticed that you didn't have upsells or express checkout or cart reminders and this could be affecting your sales in XYZ way. By the way, your competitor ABC is doing that right now. So, think about that. That's a custom offer that I'm doing for that individual. So, you could offer uh risk or opportunity assessments. Maybe you do mini audits if it's something that you can see on the website. You could give them a simple report benchmarking them against a few of their competitors or peers.

You could offer a workshop where you could bring in internal experts in their team. Maybe it's a small trial pilot or a sample of your data if you're selling it. There's a bunch of different things that you can do. So your takeaway from this module, you have the good offer, right? The blind date, you have the better, the one to many insight, and you have the best, the onetoone offer, the custom insight. I want you to pick one of these offers that you can work on and start using immediately in your outbound outreach.

If you're a little stuck and you're thinking, you know, I don't really know if I could do a custom offer. I don't really have a marketing team that can help me with the one to many. Every single one of you can use the blind date offer. Start using that one immediately. Why me? That's the question that every single buyer is asking when they get an email from a stranger or they get a call. It's like, why are you reaching out to me? Like, you need to answer that question. Whether they ask it verbally or they are subconsciously thinking about it, you got to answer that question.

Triggers are the way that we do that. So there's a framework that we call the hierarchy of relevance. So what I want you to imagine is that with messaging, we've talked industry level stuff in nichebased stuff. So one way that we can talk to people is, you know, as SAS leaders or fintech or manufacturers or retailers or whatever it might be. A layer below that is persona. So we can say uh folks in manufacturing that are directors of operations. None of that is really answering the question why me though.

It's people like you and it's broad and it's fairly generic. Where it starts to get really interesting is a layer below that is the company. So their individual company and then below that is individual. So you're reaching out to me because I'm in manufacturing. I'm in operations, but I saw that your company welds these specific parts and I saw that you are hiring welders right now. So, if we can hit all four of those criteria, our odds of getting in touch with a buyer increase literally by five times.

So, all of the data uh recently from Gong shows that personalization. So, adding this type of relevance can increase the reply rates by five times. It can help you go from 2% reply rate to a 10% reply rate. So, I think the common problem and challenge that most everyone's going to run into here is, dude, it takes hours for me to find all of these little nuggets. Like, how can I make this happen faster? Right? So, we're going to talk about how to do that. And we're going to talk about what a trigger is, where to find them, all of that good stuff.

And what you're going to walk away from this module with is three to five effective common triggers that you can look for that make your outreach more timely and increase your odds of getting in touch. Key point number one, what's a trigger? The best way to think of a trigger is evidence that the buyer is actually prioritizing what you mapped out in your messaging matrix, uses some of the current solutions that you talked about, has a problem that you talked about, or has an aspiration, or all of the above really that you talked about.

It's a great way to go from generic industry uh companies like yours, people like you to your company, you as an individual. The trigger is going to help you answer that question again. Why me? So, let's talk about the types of triggers. There are hard triggers. So, this is clear evidence that a buyer is having a problem and it likely has urgency. There are soft triggers. So, this is evidence that can lead you to the problem, but it isn't proof that they're having it. And then no triggers. Ideally, if we're doing outbound, especially if it's mid-market, enterprise, um, or strategic, we want to avoid reaching out to accounts that have no triggers.

So, if I was to give you some examples of this, we talked about clinical ops, right? The folks that are working at companies that have medical devices, they want to start these trials. An example of no trigger would be, I look at the company, they have no medical devices, they have no active studies, they have no active projects. there's nothing going on that would indicate to us that it's relevant and timely for us to reach out. An example of a soft trigger would be and again a soft trigger leads us to the problem.

It doesn't necessarily mean that they are having it but we can hypothesize or make an educated guess about it is maybe they have active studies uh for their projects that are underway. Right? It's a great trigger but it's a soft trigger because it's an indicator that they have a study but we do not know if they are experiencing pain. A hard trigger would be, hey, we see that they're hiring a clinical operations team. And in the job description, it talks about how they need to be proficient at manual processes and using spreadsheets and paper and Excel and all of that kind of good stuff.

That would indicate that they're actually having a problem with some of the manual workflows that we oftentimes talk about. One of the things that I don't want to discount here as well is that triggers are not just about looking online and finding stuff. You can create your own triggers as well. So, we talked about the bottoms up approach. Let's say that before I reach out to the VP of clinical operations, I just call a few people on that person's team just to see what kind of systems they use and what kind of problems they might be having.

And those IC's and managers are much more willing to share some of that stuff. So, I created my own trigger. I reached out to them and they shared with me that they are having pain. And I bring that trigger up to that VP. So, I can create my own triggers as well. So, one last thing that's really interesting because you might be thinking about the different types of personalization. We did that big study with Gong, 85 million cold emails. And what we found is that company level personalization has a 9% reply rate versus 6% for the individual versus 6% for industry versus 2% for baseline.

So in other words, if it's a director plus someone that is more close to the business outcomes, a director, a VP, someone in the seauite, they are much more likely to respond to company level personalization and things going on at their company versus you talking about a LinkedIn post that they wrote. Ideally, we're stacking all of these together. And in later modules, we're going to talk about what that sounds like and looks like in emails and and phone calls. Key point two, where to find triggers.

We've talked about what triggers are. We've built a messaging matrix. The best way to find those triggers is to one start with your messaging matrix first and think about priorities. Where could I find evidence of similar priorities? Current solutions, where could I find evidence of a current solution that they're using? Problems, same thing. Aspirations, same thing. So, let's go through a couple of examples so you can see how all of this might come together for you. in the messaging matrix. One of their aspirations was to start their studies ahead of schedule so they can get their product to market faster.

So triggers, I want to look for those things. Do they have existing studies that they've announced? Are they recruiting patients right now? Do they have ads out for that? Are they recruiting um new folks to work on the Clinops team? Do they have job descriptions that talk about the tech or lack of tech that they might be using? If we're selling to CFOs or head of finance and let's say one of the priorities we help them with is cost control and margin protection, avoiding tool sprawl and unnecessary headcount to maintain margins while expanding into new products or regions.

I'm going to look for newlyannounced products, new regions, other indicators of growth. I'm literally going to look for those things and we'll talk about where to look for them in a second. But I think what's really important is that you know what you're looking for because the worst thing you can do is just get on Google and just go down a rabbit hole of like looking for things or or you know AI these days really is probably what you're using more. We want to know exactly what we're looking for.

So we've talked about what to look for. Now let's talk about where to find it. Couple different places and there's a cheat sheet attached here that you can you can download and check out as well. So one the prospect's social media or LinkedIn profile. Unfortunately, AI is not going to be a really great help for you in this area. You're going to have to manually go look for it. But if it's someone you really want to get in touch with, it's it's definitely worth it. The about section, what they care about, right?

Their work experience. A lot of the technical roles that many of our clients sell to, I find have very detailed and robust about sections, work experience, things that they accomplished. They post often on LinkedIn. So, we're going to look on that person's LinkedIn profile at the about section, work experience, activity, and even their recommendations. The second layer of things that we can look at is the company website. So, again, we're actually going to talk about how to use AI for some of this stuff in the next module.

So, the company website, what I don't want you doing is just going onto a website and spending an hour like sifting through everything on there, okay? But you need to know what to look for. Um, the about page, company values, the careers page is probably the most relevant one, right? Where you can find what they're hiring for, why they're hiring. Their blog or news page is going to have all kinds of information around mergers and acquisitions, expansion or contraction, new products, service lines, awards, relevant content.

They might have case studies and testimonials. If you're selling something that can attach to CSR initiatives like sustainability, DEI community, we can attach to stuff like that. And then lastly, if it's a publicly traded company, they're going to have annual reports, quarterly reports, impact reports, all kinds of great stuff on their website. Next, company social profiles. This one's pretty straightforward. LinkedIn. A lot of company news is posted on LinkedIn. A lot of hiring is posted on LinkedIn as well.

If it's a company that's maybe a little bit more business to consumer, their Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, what are they talking about? What are they sharing? Next, third parties. We've talked a little bit about this, but there are earnings calls and press releases. There's a tool called Seeking Alpha that I really like for this, but it'll help you pull transcripts of those quarterly earnings calls. The actual quarterly earnings report, I find, doesn't have a lot of commentary in it. It's mostly facts and figures, how the company's performing, their financials, the earnings calls and the transcripts, they have people ask them really tough questions in those calls, and how they answer them could give you a lot of great insight.

Uh there's PR, there might be new legislation. If you sell something related to tax compliance, let's say, there's all kinds of stuff that third party information can get you. And then last but not least, there are inbound triggers. So, another thing you can take into consideration is, are they downloading ebooks? Have they attended events or webinars or engaged with us on social, whatever it might be. So, what I want you to do is prioritize your top five triggers. These could be a combination of hard and soft triggers.

And what we want to do is map those out, where to find them, and that's going to tee us up really well for the next module where we're going to talk about how to leverage AI to help you find some of these triggers. AI is not going to replace you, but you will be replaced by a rep who's well trained in AI. I think the best indicator and proof of this that I could give you is look at all of the AI companies. ChatGBT, Perplexity, uh, Claw, all of the companies are hiring sales reps and a lot of them are hiring sales development reps, humans to do the outbound for them.

You would think out of any company that could automate and do this with AI. It would be the AI companies. So they are hiring people. It's not about getting replaced. It's about how you work with it. So what we're going to talk about in this module is really how can we work more with a red pen, right? And edit things and save brain power so that we're not starting from scratch versus black pinning. Okay. There's a company that we worked with uh they sell AI cameras for fire detection and prevention and they just after implementing some of this stuff their reps went from working 10 15 hours analyzing reports and digging through these like 200page annual reports situational awareness reports etc to like literally cutting this down to about 5 or 10 minutes a pop.

And that's what I want to help you with today. So, what you might be experiencing though if you've used AI is a couple things. One, you're skeptical. Maybe you haven't used it. You haven't taken the time to learn it. Uh maybe the output has been basic unhelpful or it's been information overload. Or the worst, maybe some of the information has been inaccurate, right? It's done some of those hallucinations. And last but not least, maybe it's taken way too long to get what you want. So maybe you're like, "Dude, it would be a lot faster for me to just look for this manually instead of working back and forth with this AI." So what I'm going to talk to you about in this module is one, how to train AI to produce better results for you.

I'm going to give you some prompts that you can use to search through 100 plus page documents in a matter of seconds, and you're going to get some starter messaging that you can use for your outbound emails. Key point number one, let's talk about the framework. AI, like I said, it's not going to do your job for you, but it's a great assistant. So, I want you to think for a second. If your company, let's say if you're a rep or even a senior sales leader, let's say that your company said, "Here's a budget that you can use to hire your own personal assistant." What's the first thing that you would do?

You probably would onboard that person. You would teach them about the company. You would teach them how to do some of the specific tasks maybe that you need to get done. And when they came back to you with it, you would probably give them feedback. These are things that we would do for a human. Yet the expectation I find is not the same with AI. We expect that it just will know how to do our job for us and not need any course correction or feedback when the exact opposite is true. You have to treat AI like a human.

You got to interact with it. You got to train it. You got to give it feedback in order for it to produce a better outcome for you. Okay. So the very first part of the framework is we want to educate. Since AI doesn't know anything really about your company or your buyer outside of what might be publicly available, I want you to feed it the messaging matrix that you created. If there's highlevel information that you have about your product, the solution, um sales decks that you might have, I want you to upload that.

I want you to take customer case studies, upload that kind of stuff. If there are call transcripts, anything that you can think of that you would want as a new rep being onboarded at your company, I want you to give to the AI. The cool part, and who knows, this is maybe changed since you're watching it now because these platforms changed so quickly, but chat GBT has a way to create projects where you can upload these types of files to it. Uh Gemini has a way to create gems. I mean, there's so many tools that you can use and give it this information so you don't have to prompt it every time.

Okay. The second part of the framework is dig. Once I've educated AI on who we are, what we do, what our buyers care about, now I can give it specific instructions on what to look for. Okay. The reason for this is we don't want to say something like create an account plan for me. I'm researching T-Mobile. It's going to give you a bunch of that you just don't frankly isn't helpful. Okay? We want to tell it what not to look for. We want to give it the right things to look for. So we have to be very specific about where we want it to dig.

Lastly, summarize. We need to make all of the information digestible and also prioritize the key triggers that we looked for. So 50 pages of info in AI is just as useless as getting 50 pages of info that you have to manually look through in a Word document. It still takes time to go through. We want a quick, concise summary. Key point number two, prompts and what this looks like in action. So what you can do below there's a link to a document with a series of prompts that you can use to uh one get the account research started two to educate the AI on what your solution does and then kind of the workflow for how that might look whether you're using gems chat GBT whatever it might look like.

So grab the document below. In the next video, I included a bonus where I'm going to walk you through specific examples so you can see what this looks like in action. So, what you should do at this point is you should have taken three accounts. You should have two buyer personas across those three accounts. And I want you to conduct the AI research and you should end up with one, a mini account plan, and then two, some sample emails that you can use for each of those three accounts. Once I've made the decision on who I'm going to reach out to or who I will not reach out to, the second thing you really need to think about is committing to that activity.

And you have to commit because outbound, like we've talked about before, it's just getting harder and harder every year. Takes more phone calls, takes more emails, takes more social touches. You have to be really conscious of who you decide to go outbound on and the level of activity that you're going to commit in order to get a response. So, common problems here really center around not following what the data suggests that we should do. It's lack of activity. So, the average rep reaches out to a prospect three to five times before stopping.

Hint, the data suggests we should do about 3x that. Second thing is lack of consistency. So, maybe I spread out my emails. I send one, you know, today is Thursday. I make a call next Thursday and I forget maybe to follow up the week after. I send another email and it's not very obvious to the buyer who's probably getting hundreds of emails on a weekly basis. Dozens of phone calls that, hey, that phone call I made, that voicemail I left, and the email that I sent, that's all coming from the same person.

Third part is channel neglect. So, ignoring entire channels. The most common channel that I see getting ignored is the phone. There is a rare occurrence where a team is like, "Hey, we're all about the phones and we love the phones, but we can't make this email thing work, so we don't send emails." It's usually the opposite. When we don't combine multiple channels together, we're literally losing out on twothirds of the responses that we could be getting. The other set of problems really revolves around treating every prospect the same.

And we're going to talk about what to do about that here in a second. So, we want to use databag strategies. We want to tier our efforts. And what we're going to talk about in this section is how to build sequences that deliver consistent replies. Key point number one, let's talk about tiering first. We do not want to treat prospects equally. We've already talked about the importance of the martini glass-shaped pipeline where we're going to at the very top of the funnel say no to most of the folks that we could be reaching out to so that we can go deeper on those opportunities.

With sequencing, we want to have different types of sequences and omni channel approaches depending on how valuable the meeting will be for us. So for example, one of the types of sequences that we suggest is a hightouch sequence. This is going to be very customized. So think about the emails that you write in the sequence. These are going to be customized. Think about the channels, you know, phone plus email plus social. We're going to go across all of those channels and go highly customized. This is a really great approach if we're reaching out to someone who is a senior stakeholder.

Maybe it's an account that's just like a super good fit. We know that they have a problem that we can solve. Maybe we see a potential for a really large deal size. We're going to conduct all of the phone calls, all of the emails, all of the social touches. We'll show you an example of what that looks like here in just a second. The other type of sequence that we might use instead of a hightouch sequence is a low touch sequence. This is going to leverage more automation and it's typically going to be really heavy on email.

So these might be fully automated emails and the phone calls are optional. Maybe only prospects who are opening up our emails but not responding are the ones that are going to get a phone call from us. Okay. So if I was to give you an example, we worked with a customer that sells a finance solution to software companies. So it's something that works on the back end of the purchases that you know will help when a credit card is bad or expired or when something's about to uh be a recurring charge.

and let's say for some reason it doesn't go through because of a fraud alert. Like it's really good at spotting these things so that a company can improve their monthly uh revenue. An example of a hightouch sequence would be to a CFO or head of finance. It's very manual. It's much harder to get a hold of these people and because they uh have a very high value to us if we meet with them. We're getting a sales cycle started with someone very senior. Low touch a finance manager. This might be more automated to get some context into what kind of tools they're using, but it's not going to need as much personalization to capture their attention.

So, if we're looking at some example sequences here, what you can see is there's a hightouch sequence, and you can see that it's got all of the emails, all of the calls, all of the social touches that's happening over a 3-week period here. And what you can see here is an example of a low touch sequence. This is mostly email touches. There's a lot of automation. I maybe sprinkle in in a phone call or two if the prospect is engaging with me. Key point number two. So, we've talked about tiering. Let's talk about what the data suggests that we should do and answer the question of, you know, how long should we reach out, how often, across what channels, how many touches per channel, etc.

So, the simple approach, if I was to make this very just mind-numbingly simple for you, it's multi-day. So, it's 3 to four weeks long. So from start to finish, I'm going to go 3 to 4 weeks. It's multi-touch, 12 to 15 touches. So that's across three channels. Phone plus email plus social. So I want to be multi-day, multi-touch, multi- channelannel. What that might look like over the course of a week is what you see here on this diagram. So what the first week might look like, the first set of five touches is I'm going to call.

I'm going to leave a voicemail if they don't pick up. I'm going to follow it up with the email and I'm also going to hit them up on LinkedIn. I'm going to do all of those simultaneously. And what the data shows is that if we leverage these double and triple taps, Tony Hughes refers to this as combo prospecting. Sales loft data shows it's going to increase our contact rate by 3.1x if we do those touches together and simultaneously. Phone plus email plus social. So, let's say that we do that on a Tuesday.

We're going to give it a break on Wednesday. So, we're going to make a lot of noise Tuesday, break Wednesday. On Thursday, we're going to follow up with two more touches. The call and then a bump email. So, that that email is going to bump that first email. We're not going to send another long email. We're going to do same email chain. We're going to bump it. And now we have our five touches. And we're just going to repeat that pattern over the course of 3 weeks. There's a couple really specific things going on with this sequence that I want to point out.

and then we'll show you like a full example of what the sequence looks like so you can see the emails, the language, all of that kind of stuff. So, we've talked about double and triple taps. The second thing that we want to do, and I've sort of alluded to this but not called it out specifically, is following the engagement. Anytime we see some sort of sign of life, a prospect opens an email, uh, replies to an email, even if it's not a positive response necessarily, they accept a LinkedIn connection request, we're going to use their response and their engagement as a way to point our effort in the right direction.

So, in other words, if we see them engaging, we're going to disproportionately put more effort into those prospects. They open emails, I'm going to call more of those folks. They're accepting my LinkedIn connection request. I'm going to send more emails. I'm going to call more, etc. I'm going to follow the engagement. Number three, we talked about bump emails. It's this principle that we're not going to send a bunch of long-winded emails backto back to the customer. In a later module, we're going to talk about email and bump emails specifically.

So, we'll have some more content on that. And the fourth point here is pointing voicemails to emails. So, during the phone section, we're going to talk about this concept a little bit more. But one thing that you can keep with you here is the point of doing multi- channelannel and doing omni channel is not just for you to do all of this stuff across the different channels. It's so that it feels like an omni channel experience to the buyer. So in other words, we want to connect the activity we do over the phone with the activity we do via email with the activity we do via social because it's all coming to the same place, that person's smartphone.

So, with voicemail, instead of asking for a call back when we leave a voicemail, we're just going to point the voicemail to the email. We're not going to say, "And by the way, it's Jason. Call me back at XYZ." It's, "Hey, it's Jason. I sent you an email." And the subject line is boom. And we'll talk about what that might sound like here in a later module when we talk about the phones. But, Gong data and ORM data both supports this. Email reply rates increase by 2.1x when you leave voicemails through your sequences.

That's data from Gong. Future pickup rates are 25.8% higher according to ORM if you leave voicemails as well. So the phone, even if people are not picking up the phone, that doesn't mean that they aren't engaging with voicemails and other things that you're sending them. So let's take a look at a full example sequence from top to bottom. So here's a hightouch sequence. We've been using the example quite a bit today with the clinical operations persona. So again to refresh you, the clinical operations persona.

These folks work at a medical device company. They want to start and run a study and they want it to finish on time. So here's what that first email might look like. You can see the subject line FAPI study delays. They called that a specific study. So when we think about like relevance and triggers, they found a specific study. Hey Frank, congrats on the FDA approval to move forward with the FAPI clinical trial. I imagine your focus on enabling the recruitment of upcoming trials, but spreadsheets and double data entry across multiple systems can cause delays.

That's a problem statement. And again, we're going to break down these emails a little bit more in depth in a future module. Ultronics and Medthms shorten startup timelines from 12 weeks to 4 weeks to get their product to market faster. Can I share how this could be helpful for you at Sophie? That's my first email. It's personalized. I call and leave a voicemail next. I follow, like, and comment on LinkedIn. I do all of that on the first day of reaching out to someone. On the third day, I bump the email.

Here's more info on how Ultronics reduce startup timelines from 12 to 4 weeks. Again, it's not a long-winded email. This is an automated bump email that I did not have to send hit send on. Third and last email on the chain. I bump it one more time on day eight. Any thoughts on connecting with our studies expert Clara, who just helped Sophie reduce startup timelines? Boom. That's it. And I call and leave a voicemail one more time, send a connection request on LinkedIn, and then I do that same thing again with another email focused on a different priority.

So the way that we can think of this in our messaging matrix, if we came up with two core priorities, we might have a sequence where the first three emails focus on the first priority and then bumping it and the second set of three emails focuses on the second priority. And here's what that looks like from start to finish. The second type of sequence, so we talked high touch, is now low touch. So if we look at that same example, let's say that we're sending a low touch sequence. It's to someone in clinical ops, but it's at the IC level.

It's an individual contributor. It's not someone that's at a director or VP level. When we reach out to them, you can see this first email. It's not personalized outside of what you could easily bring in with Merge Tax. It's got the person's first name on it and then the company name. That's it. We remove the personalization. We bump the email on day three. Bump it again on day eight. No call tasks, right? Day 10, 15, 17, new set of emails. Bump, bump. So, in that automated low touch sequence, what we're doing there is sending those emails.

And then we might decide to call folks that open up a lot of those emails. So, what we want to take away from this module here is we want to tier our sequences. We don't want to treat prospects equally. So for those senior folks or the folks that are on the power line that you're like, "Hey, a meeting with this person is very valuable. I'm going to do a hightouch sequence and then follow all of the principles that we outlined, all of the data backed principles. Then I have a low touch sequence that I'm going to leverage to reach out to IC's, managers, folks that are easier to get a hold of where the meeting, that first meeting is less valuable.

So what I want you to do is create your hightouch sequence and then create your low touch sequence. Cold calling doesn't work if you suck at it. Sorry, I have to be honest here. Like the data shows that cold calling is an effective tool for landing meetings, but if you are not skilled at cold calling and there's a time where every sales professional has not been skilled at cold calling. The rejection in doing this, it's a terrible way to spend your time if you're not skilled at it. But let's look at what the data says.

This is 300 million cold calls analyzed by Gong and 30 Minutes to President's Club. And what you're looking at here is the difference between how the average rep performs on the phones versus how the top 25% of reps perform. Connect rate, for example, 5.4% versus 13.3%. Top reps are able to get prospects to pick up the phone more. And we talked about voicemails being a tool to do that. The other thing that we've talked about as well and and we'll continue talking about is like the workflow component at when you decide to call people.

There's a bunch that goes into this. The second thing is the set rate. That's the thing that you arguably have the most control over. So when a prospect does say hello and you engage in conversation with them, the average rep books 4.6% of those live conversations into meetings versus 16.7%. So, in other words, if we're looking at this so far, it takes 20 calls or so for the average rep to get a pickup and then 20 live conversations to book a meeting. And then when you look at the show rate, the average rep gets just above half of the people they set to show up for a meeting.

Think about all the freaking effort you have to put in to get someone to show up to a meeting if you are average. So the big part here is that yeah, we can't control necessarily when and if people will pick up the phone, but we do control how good we are when they do decide to pick up and then how much of those people that we can get to show up. Okay, so the most common problem, this is the one that we're going to address in this module, is getting shut down in the first 30 to 60 seconds. Chorus data shows that the average cold call only lasts around 80 seconds.

Spoiler alert, that's not long enough for you to book a meeting with that prospect. Okay, reps are showing up in a way that is not confident and it's making the prospect not want to talk with them. The second thing is not feeling like the activity is worth it. You might be because, hey, I'm not skilled at this thing. Why would I even do this? People don't pick up the phone. They don't seem excited to talk to me when they do say hello. And you end up missing out on a bunch of opportunities that you could be working if you were great at this skill.

So the solution here is we're going to sell ourselves, not our product. What do I mean by that? The way that we sell ourselves is not by talking about how great we are. The way that we sell ourselves to a sophisticated buyer is by showing them that we understand their world, that we talk to their peers, that we've worked with their peers, that we understand their problems. If we can show up in that way, people will engage with us on the phone. So the outcome of this module, what I want you to walk away with is a simple framework that you can use to build your own talk track to secure meetings.

All right, let's do a high-level overview of the framework. There's three parts to the cold calling framework. There is an intro, a hook, and a close. So the intro, I want you for a second to think about what is it like to be on the receiving end of a cold call. I'm a firm believer, and feel free to let me know if you disagree, that no one picks up a cold call on purpose. They thought that you were someone else, someone else more important, by the way, someone in their family, their school, maybe a prospect, a customer, uh someone they've been waiting to hear back from on their team, whatever it might be.

Okay? So, they thought that you were someone else. What's really key in the intro, what we're going to talk about is how to get an opt-in. They did not raise their hand saying, "I want you to call me." So, we're going to get an opt-in. We're going to ask if they are willing to participate and then instead of doing a product pitch, we're going to do what we call a reverse pitch. We're going to share common problems that their peers have shared with us and we're going to see if that resonates. So that's our intro.

What we're going to do in the hook after we do the reverse pitch and we find something that resonates with them, we need good questions. We call these money questions. We need good questions to ask them to engage the buyer around a common problem that they might have because that's ultimately the reason they're going to want to take the meeting. The last part of the framework that we'll dig into is the close. So the close is really all about how do I summarize what I heard, secure time with them, and then how do I leverage what we call a triple confirmation to make sure that they show up.

We want 80 plus% of the people that we set for a meeting to be showing up. Key point number one. So, let's dig into the first 60 seconds. These are where 90% of cold calls die. The goal here is to start the conversation. So, there's a couple things I want to talk about before we even get into what to say. One is call reluctance. So, I would be lying to you, and I've been doing this for nearly two decades. I would be lying to you if I said I didn't get nervous prior to calling an executive at a large company.

Like, I get nervous. I don't think you are human if you if this type of activity doesn't make you a little bit nervous. Okay. So, we have to manage some of the things around call reluctance to help us show up better in that conversation. So, there's a couple things. One like physical thing that you can think about. So, if we think about like things that are controlling like your body and like the cortisol that might be going through your body and just like your nervous system, box breathing, it's a super simple thing.

Navy Seals talk about this a lot. It's 4 seconds in. I hold for 4 seconds. 4 seconds out. One of the reps I used to work with, what he would do is when the phone was ringing, he hear it dialing, he would just make sure to take a deep breath. I don't know about you, I've started many cold calls short of breath. So, we want to get some oxygen into our brain. I personally find that standing up and pacing around, my energy is much better when I'm making calls standing up versus sitting down and hunched over like this.

I want to get the energy out of the body. Um, I used to have a thing that I would do too back when I was working in an office where I would go take a lap outside around the office first and then come back to my desk and I feel like, okay, blood's flowing, I got a little bit of sunshine, like I'm good to go. Let's go. Right. So, mindset talked about some of the physical stuff, some of the mindset stuff. God, we could do a whole hour just talking about mindset, but I think the TLDDR here is manage your selft talk.

If you're making these calls and you're saying things like, uh, I don't know, I think they already have a solution. Or you look at the person's LinkedIn profile and you're thinking to yourself, god, that person doesn't look very friendly. Or, why would this person want to engage with me? They're they're 20 years older than me, right? They have all this experience. Why could they possibly want to talk to me? Um, we need to reframe that, right? Instead of focusing so much on reasons why it not might not make sense to talk to them, what if you just leaned in and just was curious.

Hey, I wonder what solution they're using. Hey, I'm wondering if they're having trouble managing these three or four HR solutions a lot like my customer Susie was having. Right? So if you can manage that selft talk and and not try to just be like super toxic positivity about it but just like we're curious versus making judgments that's really really helpful for a lot of people. The last thing I'll share here is reframing the goal. So instead of focusing so much on the outcome which imagine if you were trying to get into shape or just lose a little bit of weight let's say and you went to the gym and you're like yeah my goal is to like lose 2 lbs.

You would be really disappointed at the end of that gym time if your goal wasn't like just focused around the activity and just going to the gym and putting in the reps, right? Focusing on the outcome, it's you have less control over the outcome than you do around the activity and the inputs. Okay? So, what I would focus on is, hey, my goal is to see if they want to have a conversation. My goal is not to book a meeting when they say hello cuz that's going to make me desperate for their time. I'm going to want something from them.

I'm going to want their approval. My goal is simply just to get a conversation started. And you know what? They may not want to talk to me. And that's okay. That has nothing to do with me. Okay? Maybe they don't need our solution. Like, I don't need to take this personally. So, call reluctance. You need to really work on this. If you're experiencing call reluctance and it's getting in the way of you making the calls, I would try some of those things. The second thing I want to talk about related to this is tonality.

For some reason in corporate America, I find and I don't really come from corporate America. My first sales job was going door to door selling house painting services. So I worked in the contracting industry. When I when I was their marketing director working in a corporate office, it wasn't really super corporate. I noticed that most people transform into a different human when they're at the office or when they were talking to customers and they start saying things like, "Hey, how's it going?" Like they talk in this tonality that just does not sound like them.

if their friends or family were listening, they'd be like, "Who the heck is this person?" We have to remove the uptalk, the customer service boys, being super corporate. We got to remove all of that. You're really looking for friendly if that's your style. And I want to smile when I talk. I don't need to be like, "Oh, yeah, like so excited, but I should be smiling and it should come through in my tonality." The second thing is pacing. I don't want to talk fast. In fact, what you might do is dial it down 25%.

Talk at 75x. Talk at this speed. Hey, it's Jason with Outbound Squad. I know I probably caught you in the middle of something. Do you have a minute for me to share the reason for my call? And you can let me know if you want to hang up or not. I want to talk at that pace. Remember, when they pick up the phone, they are doing something else. So, when you talk really fast and they can't understand you and you have to repeat yourself, you're going to get a ton of objections. So, tonality, pacing, super important.

So, let's get into the tactics of what to say in the intro. The first thing you're going to open with, we call it a permissionbased opener, okay? PBO for short. Gong's got a bunch of data on this. And by the way, I've worked with reps that break all of the rules that I'm about to share with you. And one of the best reps I ever worked with, she broke all of these rules. So, these are not hard fast things that are like dos and don'ts. These are guidelines. This is backed by data. These are best practices.

Use your own style and judgment when you're executing on this. So, openers we want to avoid. Did I catch you at a bad time? This was something that was popularized, I believe, by Aaron Ross, and it worked really well a decade ago. So many people are getting this opener that most of the time they're going to say, "Yes, it's a bad time." Okay, so did I catch you at a bad time? How's it going? Please don't waste any real estate at the beginning of the call figuring out how your prospect's day is going.

I would also challenge you to say that you probably don't give a how the prospect's day is going. You don't even know them. So, it's one of the most insincere ways that you could open up a phone call is by asking how someone's day is going when you don't really care how their day is going. What we're going to teach you today is two permission based openers and then the her name tossed around which was popularized by Arman Farooq at 30 MPC. Let's talk about and give you some examples. Okay, so the first one's the classic.

So, these openers are going to apply to new business. These are customers not already doing business with you. Uh, hey Dave, it's Jason. I know you weren't expecting my call. Do you mind if I take a quick moment to share why I called you specifically? This is a classic permissionbased opener. It's worked for many, many decades now. At this point, as long as people have been making phone calls to people and cold calling, they've been using something that sounds like this. It's the most generic type of opener that you could use.

The next couple I'm a very big fan of, especially if you're calling executives. The next one's called frontload relevance. Okay, so the key here with this one is I want to frontload the reason for my call at the front of the opener. Optional is I could even do it before I introduce myself. So I want to mention something that will catch their attention. Okay, so I might say something like this. Uh, hey Tom. I was calling about the recent launch of ABC product. It's Jason with Outbound Squad. Do you got a minute?

I promise to be brief. So, think about the provocative hook, the trigger that you found. You're going to put that as the reason for your call at the very beginning. The goal is to grab their attention. Then, I'm going to introduce myself, ask for permission. Third, Arman frokes opener. This is really good to use if you sell sled or anything that's very local in nature. So, we had a client that sells to like construction contractors and most construction contractors work locally in their markets.

So, it could sound something like this. Uh, hey Jason, uh, we work with a few other house painters here in Seattle like ABC Painters. It's Dave with XYZ Construction Pros. Have you heard her name tossed around? So, I'm weaving in a ton of like social proof and I'm localizing it as well. So, I can drop a location if that's relevant. I can drop social proof, other example companies. This one works really well. Uh, the next one we call Jbay's opener. This is a play off of the front-loaded relevance, but it has context plus social proof plus a short problem statement in there, too.

I find that execs need to hear this when they answer the phone. Otherwise, they're just really prone to hanging up. So, here's what that might sound like. Hey, Katie, I was reaching out about the AEES you're hiring and the self-sourcing that they're being asked to do. It's Jason over at Outbound Squad. Sales teams at Shopify, Ripling, and Gong use us to help their AES self-source pipeline so that they're not so reliant on marketing and SDRs. Do you got a minute to hear why I'm calling you specifically?

So, I'm going to pack my problem statement into there along with the social proof. Two more openers that I have for you that are more for existing customers. So, if you're an account manager, let's say, or an account executive really that's selling uh or cross-selling or upselling into the base, this is what you're going to want to use. So, this could sound something like this. Uh, hey Claire, it's Jason over at XYZ company. I'm actually working with Ryan right now over in the Seessaw team on reducing downtime.

Do you got a quick minute to connect? So, I'm bringing in and I'm named dropping someone else in their department. Okay. And the problem that we're working on solving the last openers for cross-selling. This one's pretty good. So, same kind of thing. I want to work in roles, people on their team, social proof, any kind of relevance that I can. This one might sound like, "Hey, Bindu, it's Jason with XYZ company. I'm your conversation optimization specialist and I work with Ryan on the checkout experience.

We haven't connected yet with the web team and I wanted to introduce myself. Do you got a quick minute? So, what I want you to do at this point is pick a few openers that really fit your personality and just practice them. The beauty of cold calling, if there is anything, is how predictable it is. You can almost be assured that someone's going to answer the phone on accident. They're immediately going to be skeptical. They're going to give you very little time to talk to them and the opener is going to sound almost exactly the same every single type of prospect that you call.

So start practicing some of these openers and get really comfortable with them. The second part is the reverse pitch. So after I do my permission based opener in the reverse pitch instead of you know the prospect saying yes and me being like oh awesome I get to pitch my product now like I'm chomping at the bit to do that. I want you to resist every urge in your body to product pitch. Instead, what we're going to do, and all of the data supports it, you've seen the data, problembased language will convert three times more meetings than buzzwords.

So, we are not going to talk about our product. This you could also refer to this as your problem hypothesis. Okay? We're making a our best educated guess on what they might be having a challenge with. So version one of this, I'll give you what a generic version of this might sound like and it's going to sound like this. So you can see the framework here. Hey, I'm calling because when I speak with CFOs and finance leaders in retail, usually we see these challenges. One is around cost control and margin projection.

They want to avoid tool sprawl and unnecessary headcount to maintain margins while expanding into new products or regions. The second thing is around predictable revenue growth. They want to grow MRR, but they don't want to add complexity and they want to improve forecasting and really be confident in their numbers. I'm curious, how does that compare to your day-to-day? So, you're going to take the priority statements from your messaging matrix that becomes your reverse pitch. Okay, so version two of this is really specific.

I'm going to tailor the pitch based on the relevance that I found when I was doing research. I'm going to drop a trigger in there. So, this might sound like this. Hey, I'm calling you because you know you just launched XYZ product and Fortnite who we worked with was in a similar position running into these two challenges. One was around cost control and margin protection. They wanted to avoid tool sprawl as they grew new product lines what like what you guys are doing with ABC product and they wanted predictable revenue growth.

They wanted to to grow MR without adding complexity and they also wanted to make sure to reduce churn. I'm curious how does that compare to your day-to-day? So I've woven in the intro there. I've woven in something relevant and tailored to them a trigger and then I'm slightly tailoring my reverse pitch after that. Key point number two. So the second part of the call, the hook. What we want to do here is really make sure that we ask good questions that get the prospect to lean in and open up. Okay.

What we want to avoid doing is asking questions that require the prospect to admit weakness to a complete stranger. We want to make it safe by framing problems as oh I can agree that I also have this problem that my peers are experiencing versus a personal problem. This is called displacing the problem. Okay? So we don't want to ask what is your biggest challenge. We want to do things like hey one of the big challenges that we hear around reducing cost to serve is you put all of this work and getting customers to solve their own problems but they end up picking up the phone anyways and calling in.

I'm curious how does that resonate with like what you're seeing at ABC company. You see what I did there? I talked about a problem a peer experiences and I asked if it resonated with them. Right? So, one framework is what we call money questions. So, the framework for this is, you know, if I was soand so on your team, how would I do something that we know that they can't do? So, it might sound like this. Hey, if I was your finance ops manager, how would I figure out which parts of your revenue stack cost the most to maintain?

Hey, if I was in charge of global expansion, how would I know which countries are compliant and which ones aren't? The next one's a spotlight question. So, this is a how do you do something I know that you can't do, right? How do you balance speed and accuracy if your finance systems don't talk to each other? How do you think about that? Or how do you strike a balance between those two things? The third one is pervasive problem. So, I'm going to share something that is very common across all of their peers and I'm going to see if it resonates.

That might sound something like this. Hey, we're seeing it's really hard right now to find great welding talent. And the second thing is that automation is starting to take place in a lot of these manufacturing plants, but there are still a lot of like hard customized uh welding parts that are really hard to do at scale. And I'm curious, how does that compare to your experience? And last, but not least, tell me a story. The last framework is really getting the prospect to open up and tell you a story.

Okay? So, you might ask something like this. Hey, I'm really curious. The last time that you needed to give leadership an updated revenue projection, how quickly was your team able to turn that around, right? So, we want the prospect to open up and share a story with us. So, what you want to do here is come up with two or three questions that align to the problems in your messaging matrix so that we can get the customer talking about problems they have. We're going to tee that up in the last part here.

Key point number three, close and secure the meeting. If the prospect is still talking to you at this point, the meeting is yours to lose. Okay, so there's a couple things we want to do really effectively. So, what we can do here to transition is to summarize and share a customer story. So, I'm just going to restate back what I heard in that call. So, uh, hey Tom. So, just to recap real quick, it sounds like welding talent has been pretty tough to find for you guys. And there are some parts that if you could figure out how to automate would be really helpful for you guys.

Did I miss anything? No. Cool. Um, this is exactly what we're helping other manufacturers like XYZ tackle. And instead of, you know, talking to you more in the middle of your day here when I'm calling you randomly, how about we unpack this when I'm not cold calling you out of the blue? Cool. Do you have your calendar handy? I'm going to get the yes. Hey, the best next step is a quick call with my AE Tom who can show you how other teams are tackling this. How's tomorrow look at 2 p.m.? So, I want to summarize and share a customer story, and then I'm going to go in for an assumptive close, ask them if they have their calendar handy, and go into booking a meeting.

Last but not least, I'm going to do a triple confirmation. This is so essential for getting the buyer to show up. One, I want to send the invite on the call live while I have them. There's nothing worse than having the wrong email address, no email address, the invite going to spam. Like, good luck. you already did the hardest part getting them to to pick up the phone and talking to them and then agreeing to meeting with you. We don't want to lose it right at the finish line. We want to get them to accept the calendar invite while we have them on the call and give them the reason.

Um, hey, while I have you, I just sent the calendar invite. Can you go ahead and accept that in the email? Sometimes that doesn't go through or gets sent to spam and I want to make sure it hit your hit your calendar, too. I'm going to restate the agenda. So, like I said, there's some hard to automate welding parts that you wanted to dig into. Tom's going to talk to you about how we're helping clients with that and also how they're approaching the welder shortage right now. And since you guys are not meeting until next Tuesday, um I will reach out to you the day before to confirm.

And in the meantime, I'm going to open up a a group text between you and Tom so that you can reach out to Tom directly if anything comes up. So, what we have at this point is a complete conversational structure for how to navigate the call. Intro, hook, close. There's a worksheet below this where you can populate your own talk track. I would suggest using AI to help you do that as well. You could upload the talk track in there along with your messaging and say, "Hey, help me populate this talk track." You could create it from scratch if you want.

Either one works, but we want a strong intro. Pick your PBL, craft your reverse pitch. In our hook, we want two or three great money questions. And then our close, we want to get really good at summarizing, scheduling time, and then doing the triple confirmation. Prospects lie. They just do. It's It's easier to lie than to just be really blunt about not wanting to talk to you because they don't like you, don't need your stuff, don't like your company, whatever it might be. Most buyers are not going to be like your typical New Yorker that's like in your face and not afraid to tell the truth.

So, what does this have to do with objection handling? really it's that hey when someone says not interested or send me an email that's not really what they mean nor what they are really objecting to. The key problem here is that most calls don't make it past the first 60 seconds and buyers you're going to get stuck if you accept their excuses. And I don't mean that you need to overpower every objection, but you need to be able to understand that when someone gives you an excuse for not wanting to talk any further within the first 30 to 60 seconds of meeting with them, they're not really objecting to you or what you're selling.

Okay? So, we're going to talk about how to deal with that. The second area that we see reps getting stuck is that they do get legitimate objections like we're using a competitor. Uh, we don't have budget right now. um we just signed you know with XYZ competitor and we don't have a great talk track you know for overcoming those objections. Uh so what I'm going to give you is a couple things. Um one pattern recognition we're going to talk about and that's grouping objections into buckets so that we can get really good at responding to different types of objections versus having to memorize 25 different scripted responses.

We need to be great at pattern recognition. We need to be great at detecting instinctive objections versus calculated objections. We'll talk a little bit more about what those are. We're going to respond to those two types of objections in very different ways. And then once we validated what type of objection it is, we need to be really great at handling the objection in a way that gets the buyer to lean in. And that's using empathy. That's validation, right? It's being human and not trying to just overcome every single objection that we get.

So, what you're going to walk away from this module with is an objection handling framework that you can use for just about every objection that you're going to come across. Key point number one, pattern recognition. So, the beauty of cold calling, like I said before, is it's pretty predictable. When someone picks up, the most likely thing to happen is that they're going to give us some sort of brush off. We call these instinctive objections. This is not interested. I'm busy. How'd you get my number?

or send me an email. Like all of the normal things that we hear, this is 75% plus of the objections. When they give me an instinctive objection, what do they need from me in that moment to continue talking? And they need acknowledgement. They're not objecting to you or what you're selling. They're objecting to being cold called cold. So, they need acknowledgement. We'll talk about what that sounds like here in a second. The second type of objection is calculated objections. So calculated objections, this typically happens later in the call and these are a more legit objection that actually has some logic behind it.

It's not just this emotional visceral response. We already have a solution. No budget, not the right person. Bad timing. Hey, we're under contract. We've already built this internally. What they need from you is the thing that we talked about in the offer module. They need to know what the value will be in return for spending time with you. What are they going to learn even if they decide not to move forward with your solution. So instinctive objections, calculated objections. One needs acknowledgement.

The other needs to know what value they are going to get in return for their time. The next part of this is the EVO framework. So before we talk about handling different types of objections, there's a common framework that we're going to apply across this. EVO stands for empathize, validate. The O stands for offer. Empathize, validate, offer. We're going to meet the objection with empathy. Okay? The best way to do this is to think about, you know, when someone says not interested, real quick. Think to yourself, what's going on in their head?

How are they feeling? Well, they're probably really surprised because they picked up the phone and they thought that you were someone else and they forgot that you're a salesperson right away. So, they might be feeling a little bit irritated. They might be feeling like, "Dude, I'm really busy right now." They might be feeling impatient. So, we want to be able to empathize and validate with that. It's simple acknowledgement. It's it could be nothing more than, "Hey, sounds like I got you right in the middle of something." Or, "Hey, all good.

No problem." Or, "Hey, I hear you." Any variation of that is going to work really well. Okay? So, key point number two, handling instinctive objections. Let's talk about how to handle not interested. I'm busy. Uh, we're all set. I'm going to give you two types of responses. One is a more generic response. So, this is something you could basically do in most situations when talking to buyers like this. The other is a more specific response that you really need in order to execute this effectively at the enterprise level.

So, the generic response might sound like this. Hey, all good. Right? That's the E and the V. the offer before I let you go. If there's any language that I suggest that you steal from this module, it's before I let you go. Everything here is very scripted so you can see the examples, but I don't want you to be thinking in scripts. I want you to be thinking in frameworks. But before I let you go is one of those things that I would definitely steal. Hey, before I let you go, we're hearing from finance leaders that compliance issues often stall growth.

Is that something you're running into? Pretty simple generic response. So if I've done some research, it might sound like this. All good. Before I let you go, I noticed you just launched XYZ product in France and Italy. ABC Company's team was spending a lot of time in compliance that was getting in the way of growth. How does that compare to your situation right now? Are you experiencing that as well or am I totally barking up the wrong tree here? Cool. So, I'm going to bring something relevant into there.

Um, let's talk about the next objection. I'm in a meeting right now. I'm about to head into a meeting. We're going to handle this in a very similar way. The generic response. All good. Before I let you go, I am hearing from finance leaders that compliance issues often stall growth. Do you have a minute right now to see if this is relevant or should we plan to chat later today after your meeting? So, the key here is that I'm going to give them a choice. They're about to hop into a meeting right now.

Do they want to talk right now while you have them on the phone or should we talk later? I'm going to give them the choice. Okay. the more specific response, the more tailored one we might do. Hey, before I let you go, notice that you just launched this new product in France and Italy. We worked with a similar client that was experiencing compliance issues with this international expansion. Do you have a minute right now to see if this is relevant or should I call you back after your meeting? The key idea here, do not leave that call without a calendared next step.

So, if they say, "Yeah, let's talk later." Say, "Okay, cool. Well, how about 4 p.m.? I'll send you a 5minute calendar hold." Next objection, "How'd you get my phone number?" So, let's think about how the person's feeling. This feels like a total invasion of privacy to most people, right? How'd you get my phone number? How How did you get my cell phone? Right? It feels like such an invasion of privacy. So, I'm a very big fan of just being pretty upfront and honest with how you got it. So, you could say, "Hey, fair question.

and I actually got it from Zoom Info. I can send you an email with details on removing yourself from their database if you'd like. Or you could blame it on your marketing team. Hey, fair question. I actually got it from our marketing team. I can let you know how to remove your your number from our list uh after this call if you'd like. But the reason I called you specifically is because many finance teams are running into international compliance issues that often stall growth. Do you mind if I take a minute to see if this would be helpful for you at ABC company?

The more tailored response, the more specific one might sound like this. Hey, I got your info from Zoom Info. Totally happy to send you an email on how to remove your name from their database after the call if you'd like, but I just noticed that you launched this new product in France and Italy and a lot of XYZ competitors. Uh, time was spent on compliance and it really stalled growth. You mind if I take a minute to see if this would be helpful for you at ABC company? Can you send me an email? So, there's a couple of different components to this one.

Okay, part one is we want to get more info. Part two is we're going to ask for the meeting. And then part three, we need a a way to throw out something if we get resistance. Okay, so get more info. The idea here is we're going to agree and say that yes, we will send an email, but between you and I, we know that they don't actually want to see the email, right? I think I can count the thousands of times I've done this less than one hand where someone actually responded to the email and I booked a meeting off of it.

So, I'm going to say something like this. Hey, so I can get you the best information. I'm curious. Many finance teams and their CFOs run into tax compliance issues and we just help them free up some of their teams time to avoid stalling international growth. I'm curious with the recent expansion that you guys did in France and Italy, um, how have you been dealing with international compliance? How's that been going for you guys? So, I kind of gave you a version there of something you could use that's very tailored as well.

So, part two, what I'm hoping here in part one is I got them talking. So, think about like getting them talking about some of the problems you mapped out on your messaging matrix. Now, I'm going to ask for the meeting. Great. That's exactly what we've helped software teams like XYZ company achieve. Full tax compliance and growing sales by 20 plus%. Most of what I would email you honestly would be super generic and I think you would find it more valuable if we looked at this through a lens that's really specific for your business.

Do you have your calendar handy? And then book the meeting. Right. If you can't book the meeting here, okay, hey, no worries. How about we put 5 minutes on the calendar for tomorrow when you've had a chance to review the email. If you like what you see, we keep the meeting. If you don't, you cancel it. Sound cool? Perfect. So, those are instinctive objections. Remember the key here is they are objecting to being cold called. They need acknowledgement. Key point number three, let's talk about how to handle calculated objections.

So again, these calculated objections, these are more legit logic driven objections. So the most common one you're probably going to run across is, hey, we already have a solution. We have a system for that. We have a provider. We use XYZ competitors. What you can prepare for this. What's really great to have is a list of two or three pros and cons for the competing solution or the other option. So, what that might sound like is something like this. So, someone's like, "Yeah, we already have a solution.

Hey, I'm super glad to hear that managing payment workflows is a focus for you. Do you mind sharing more about the solution that you're using?" And they may or may not be able to share that. Like in cyber security, I know that folks really don't like to share that stuff. So you might say, "Hey, great to hear that, you know, cyber security posture is really important for the team right now. I know I might be asking for a lot here, but I'm curious. Can you share what solution you're using?" So maybe acknowledge it a bit and then the pros and cons.

Okay. So I might say something like, "Hey, with the recent expansion into Italy, some of our clients find that ABC competitor is very simple to set up, pro, but doesn't scale well as they add new countries. con, it doesn't keep up with tax, fraud prevention, etc. How are you thinking about the scalability of your current setup? So, essentially the framework here is like, hey, awesome. Glad to hear this is a focus for you. Do you mind sharing a little bit more about the solution? Okay, what do I know about the solution?

Hey, often times what we hear is that our clients like XYZ really like this about the solution, but here's something that they don't quite like. So, your money questions that you came up with might inform a lot of the cons by the way. And then, how are you thinking about that? So, pros and cons can work really, really well for folks that already have another solution. Pros, cons, there's all kinds of different pricing objections that you're going to get. Everything from like how much does this cost, how does your pricing model work, etc.

When someone brings up pricing, here's an example of what we might do. Hey, fair question. You know, pricing really depends on your needs and what you're looking to accomplish. How about this? We're helping SAS finance teams at companies like XYZ grow revenue by 20% while keeping margins healthy. What if we found a time to walk through your needs so I can get you accurate pricing? Do you have your calendar handy? All right. So, basically what you're saying is like I can't get you pricing, but I'm happy to talk with you and get you some custom pricing.

Um, if there are different pricing models. So, for example, let's say you do usage based pricing versus seatbased pricing. You might say, "Hey, totally fair question. We actually do pricing quite a bit different from what you've probably seen. We don't charge based on users. We charge based on usage. How about this? We're helping a ton of companies right now like XYZ, making sure that they can manage healthy margins and only pay for what they use. I'd like to get you some custom pricing. Do you have your calendar handy?

So, that's our pricing objection. Bad timing. Not a priority right now. We're in a transition state. We got our hands full. The key with this objection and the next one is we are going to use the objection as the reason for the meeting. Okay. So, you don't have time right now. Let's talk about how we can get some of that time back. That's how to handle this objection. Hey, totally understand. That's exactly why I reached out. A lot of the finance teams that we're working with right now run into international compliance issues, which I noticed that you guys just expanded into France and Italy, and it just eats up a ton of the team's bandwidths.

How about this? What if I showed you some ways that we could help you and similar companies reduce the busy work and help you be more strategic with your time? Do you have your calendar handy? Boom. There we go. Budget. Again, we are going to use the objection as the reason for the meeting. Okay. There's this line that I like to use. It's that's exactly why I called. I think this might be like an old school like BTOC like telemarketer line or something, but it just rolls off the tongue so well. Hey, we don't have the budget.

Budget's tight. You know, that's exactly why I called. We're working with a lot of finance leaders right now around protecting margins and looking for every opportunity possible to consolidate their tools. How about this? Let's grab some time so I can show you how similar companies are reducing their tech and support costs. Do you have your calendar handy? So again, I'm using the objection as the reason for the meeting. We just went through all of your most common objections. I want you to leverage AI or you can handw write it yourself.

Use the worksheet below to fill out common objection handlers so that you can get a head start on handling objections that are going to come up in your cold calls. Gatekeepers. I'm going to be honest, I don't really like the term gatekeepers because it feels very dehumanizing. Art Sabchek wrote a book called Smart Calling. He brought this up a lot in a conversation that we had. This is an interview that we actually did many many years ago and he likes to call them assistants and I would love to use some of that terminology here.

So, we might say gatekeepers, we might say assistants, we might say operators, whatever it might be. What I want to make sure is that we are treating these people like humans and that we are being courteous, respectful, all of that kind of stuff because ultimately what we're asking these folks to do is to give us some of their time and to help us. We have to treat them like a human in order to do that. So, uh, with assistants, gatekeepers, the problem really that I see the most often with the companies that we work with and the reps that we work with is just reps trying to be super salesy and pushy or just treating them less than or giving them so much power that when they get a no from this person, they accept that no from a person that really could not give them a yes.

So, they give up on that opportunity. So, we're going to talk about how to sell credibility and not your solution. Really to treat them as a peer. The second thing we're going to talk about in this module is voicemail. Nine out of every 10 voicemails is opened. It's not always listened to, but people look at the transcripts. If you're not leaving them, you're missing out on a huge opportunity. The other thing is not asking for them to look at your email, but asking for a call back. Asking for them to do something very high effort.

Calling you back is very high effort. Looking at an email is lower effort. So, what you're going to take away from this module, I'm going to give you some really good stuff you can use with assistants and gatekeepers, and we're going to talk about how to land meetings through voicemail. Key point number one, let's talk about how to get gatekeepers and assistants to help you. Common mistakes. So, if we think about the approach, lying or being disrespectful, you should never lie to these people. So, I don't want you to call in and say, "I have a meeting with David." If you don't actually have a meeting scheduled with David, do not do that.

That's the worst way to start a business relationship by lying to someone. We will not be selling to this individual. So, we're not going to try to convince them that they should buy the product cuz they're not the decision maker. And we don't want to miss out on an opportunity to gather intel. So, just because we can't get what we need in that moment from them doesn't mean that we can't ask questions that would help make the next call more effective. So, general tips and best practices. We want to make a literal ask for help.

Hey, it's Jason. I was hoping you could help me out with something real quick. Like, get an optin. Get a yes from them to help you. We're going to use their name when possible. We're also going to have some empathy. Like, they deal with a lot of um salespeople like us all day, okay? Most of which are not great. So, let's talk about how to properly introduce yourself. So, gatekeepers and assistants care a lot about context. And if you are a person that will waste the person's time that you're trying to get a hold of, that's what they care about most.

So, if we don't have the decision maker's info, an intro might sound something a lot like this. Hey, could I actually get your help? You kind of pause again, wait for them to say yes. We actually work with a few other restaurant brands here in South Lake Union. It's Jason. Is so and so's owner around? So, it's Jason. Is company's owner around? That's all we're going to ask. Okay. So, I'm giving context. I'm localizing it a bit. Right? If I do know the owner's name, this is where I'm going to use a very assumptive opener.

And I really just want to be super confident. That's going to sound like this. Hey, it's Jason. Can you put me through to David, please? Thank you. That's it. Oftentimes, that confident tonality and just being really assumptive, that'll work like a third of the time. So let's talk about what to do the other twothirds of the time that that doesn't work. Okay. So there's some mini scripts I want to give you. When someone asks what's this regarding you do not want to say I'm calling on behalf of XYZ company.

We sell a platform that does like we don't need to talk about what the company does. We really need to lean on social proof. Okay. What's this regarding? Um hey we actually work with a ton of restaurants in the area like AB and C. Can you tell Dave it's Jason at XYZ company? Appreciate it. If you want to, you can throw in a little bit of a value prop or a problem statement, but again, we're not going to sell the solution. We might say, "Hey, we actually work with a few other restaurants here like X, Y, and Z, and we actually help put them in front of catering clients that spend on average $425 or more per order.

Could you tell so and so it's it's Jason over at XYZ company?" Thank you. So, if they say, "David's not in right now." Hey, all good. Appreciate it. Would it be too much to ask for your help real quick? Now, I'm going to do my social proof statement. Hey, we actually work with a ton of restaurants here uh in South Lake Union, like X, Y, and Z. Do you know when Tom's back in the office, so I could call back? Or, hey, what's the best way to get in touch with Tom? Uh, or hey, I have toxyz.com as the email.

Is that the correct email? Uh, hey, I'm really curious. So, you probably have a pretty good idea of the tools that you're using for XYZ. Do you mind telling me a little bit more about that? Have you guys looked into that before? And then last but not least, is so and so expecting your call? So, if someone says, "Hey, is is Dave expecting your call?" Hey, hey, great question. Would it be too much to ask you for help like real quick? Cool. I've actually sent a few emails to Dave. We work with a few other restaurants like XYZ in the South Lake Union area.

Would you mind telling Dave it's Jason over at XYZ company? Appreciate it. Thank you. So, we do not want to lie about that one and say that we do have a call or that this person is expecting a call, but we do want to let them know that we've been in communication with them. So, that's gatekeepers. Key point number two, let's talk about how to use voicemails to prime the inbox. So, I've showed you some of the data already. Let's talk about it again. Just studied 85 million cold emails. We did that together with Gong 30 minutes to President's Club.

You are 3.24 times more likely to get a response when you reach out to a prospect if you were leaving voicemails. So in all the sequences that we studied, the ones that had no calls in them versus the ones that had calls plus a call plus a voicemail, it was three times more likely to get a response. So the purpose of voicemails is not to get a call back. They are a tool you can use to increase open and reply rates. Okay, like I said, many prospects open up their voicemails. They don't necessarily listen to all of them, but it has a 90 plus% open rate.

Almost all of the transcripts people will take a quick look at before to see if it's something relevant. Okay, so here's the framework. It's relevance plus problem plus social proof plus call to action. It sounds something like this. Okay, and you can mix the problem and social proof together. So, let's use the clinical ops example. So, that might sound something like this. So, it says, uh, hey, you've reached Katie. Leave a voicemail. Hey, I saw the focus on patient diversity and I imagine patient recruiting has got to be a big focus right now.

I had a few ideas from what ABC company is doing to recruit a more diverse patient group. I sent you an email with some of those ideas. The subject line is patient diversity. Again, the subject line is patient diversity. It's Jason. No need for a call back. Check out that email when you get a chance. So, that is a more full voicemail there where you can see that I dropped in some relevance. I talked about a problem in social proof and then I had a quick CTA. Blow lift frictionless CTA. The mini voicemail sounds like this.

I'm just going to do relevance plus a call to action. I'm not going to have any social proof or problem statement. And it might sound like this. Hey Katie was calling about the FIPI study. I just sent you an email with a subject line FAPI study. It's Jason. That's it. I'm gonna be super vague, but highly relevant. I'm not going to really talk much about myself or the problems we solve or anything like that. So, try one of those two or both of those voicemail frameworks. Key point number three, AI gatekeepers.

Google Voice has had these for a really long time. Uh iOS devices now have screening. So, you've probably heard recently when you call an iPhone, it says, you know, please state your name and the reason for your call. And then it lets you get out like five or six words. You got to be super quick. The key with that, too, is, you know, on your phone, it's doing a live transcription. So, the prospect, if they're looking at their phone, like they can see a live transcription. I've had buyers pick this up, you know, mid leaving a voicemail, mid talking to the screener.

Um, they can see it and if it's relevant, they'll pick it up. So, big mistakes here. Don't say it's a cold call. I had a rep call me the other day that and the the message they left with the screener was, "It's David cold call." I'm like, "Dude, I'm not going to pick that up, man. I'm sorry." Like, you could have laughed maybe when you said it to be a little bit of funny or cheeky or something, but the way you like that, I'm just not going to pick that up. Don't introduce yourself. Don't say, "Hey, it's Jason calling with Outbound Squad.

We do X." Boom. It's going to get cut off. Don't pitch your product. long sentences will get cut off. So you want to do a couple of different things. Okay, I really like name plus problem topic. So if I was calling about patient recruitment and that was a challenge, I would just say this Jason patient recruitment. If I wanted to be really specific and relevant, so I wanted to add relevance to that problem topic, I'd say Jason FAPI patient recruiting. So the FAPI, that was the specific study, right?

Patient recruiting, those voicemail tactics and the iOS gatekeeper tactics, these are literally things you can put into action like right after watching this module. So start using those in your sequences as well. Buyers get 10 times more emails than they do phone calls. With the advent of sales engagement platforms, and most of them now, honestly, there are free tools that you can use for bulk email, it is infinitely easier to put a spam email into a buyer's inbox than it is to place a call. We haven't fully figured out a way to automate the calls yet.

So, what problem is this going to create for you? It's exponentially harder to break through email than it is through phone. That's why I'm such a big proponent, we are such a big proponent at Outbound Squad on the phones. So, email, biggest problems you're going to run into are stuff that are hard to read and very hard to respond to. So, we're asking for way too much effort from the prospect in order to reply and comply with what we want. And then two, just not being relevant, right? Being super generic.

So, the solution to this and what we're going to talk about today is how can we create emails that are easy to read, easy to take action on, they only take a few minutes. I'm going to walk you through a framework that we call the reply method. And in this module, my goal is to give you a simple, easy email framework that you can use to drive double-digit reply rates. Key point number one, let's break down a cold email. So, what you're looking at here, this is a real cold email. We redacted certain things from this email so you can see what client this was from.

But you can look here on the left, the before email. I don't even want to read it out. It's so long. I'm reaching out because we've seen a pattern with fast growing companies like yours that cross. I mean, it's just like it's so meaty and it feels like so much work to consume and read this email. So, when you take in consideration that the average college educated American reads about 250 words per minute, if you send an email that's 150 200 words, do you really think the buyer spending 30, 45 seconds reading your email?

They're just not. So what they end up doing is skimming it or just deleting it alto together. What you want your email to look like is what's more reflected there on the right. So you'll notice that the subject line says credit model. Instead of stripe tax dashboard, it's credit module because this is something that they've openly been talking about which was reflected in the first line of the email. Notice the move to a transparent credit model with the recent global growth. It's something about that company for that individual, right?

It's highly relevant. It's trigger. The next line, as you scale, billing, tax, and payments can add a lot of overhead and impact your team's ability to reconcile quickly at month end. Problem statement. Next line, XYZ company, also PLGEled with a lean development team used our help to automate payments and taxes and support 15% month- over-month growth. Social proof, right? Here's how we helped. Here's who we helped. Hopefully, it's a recognizable peer. Open to learn how they approached it. So, I have a short closedended call to action.

We need our emails to look more like the one on the right here, right? That after email. Okay. So, key point number two, let's do a deep dive into the reply method and the framework. So, the framework looks like this. The subject line needs to be what we like to call a boring subject line. What I mean by that is it costs a lot more mentally. Your mental caloric expenditure is so much more to be creative than it is to just be boring and like on the dot, on the nose, super obvious. The reward for being creative isn't really high.

It just isn't like you want to air on the side of being really obvious. The subject line should look familiar. It should look like it's from someone that they know. It shouldn't look like this outlandish creative thing that grabs their attention. Okay. In terms of the body of the email, it's high first name. First line's the reason I got to show the prospect I did my homework. I need to make this all about them and what's going on in the world. Do not introduce yourself in the first line of the email.

You don't need to. This is not a cold call, okay? You don't need to introduce yourself. It's in your signature. Okay? So, you don't need to introduce yourself, your company, what you do, none of that kind of stuff, okay? You need to hook them. It needs to have something about them. Second line, problem. This is where I share the problem and answer the why change question. So your messaging matrix, those problems, that's where we can drop the problem statement into there. Value and social proof is next.

We want to show the prospect that a peer of theirs has solved this problem. Okay, we're not going to pitch our solution. We're going to get super specific with the outcome. And lastly, a CTA. We want to make a specific ask that's easy to respond to. So, let's take a peek at some of the data. Again, this is from the 85 million cold emails that we recently studied with Gong and 30 MPC. First things first, it's got to be easy to read. All of the data supports emails that are in between 50 and 100ish words.

The reply rates are going to be the highest under 100 words. It's got to be skimmable. I'm going to really push you to do 70 80. There are very rare instances in which it's okay to do longer than this if the email is really good and highly relevant. Second thing is three to four sentences. We need clear paragraph breaks. You'll notice in the email example that I showed you earlier, it's like one sentence per paragraph. And the reason for that is like when people are reading emails and it's on mobile for example, it's like super chunky, right?

If we have multiple sentences per paragraph, it just shows up as a huge chunky paragraph. If we're reading emails on desktop, that text stretches across the entire screen. So, it's got to be mobile optimized. The first line of the email, the reason, we've talked about this a little bit, okay? Personalization matters. You are five times more likely to get a reply to your email if it is personalized and that first sentence has something about them in it. We actually went a layer deeper and dug into the different types of personalization.

And what we found from the study with Gong is that activity- based personalization works the best. This doesn't really apply to outbound necessarily. This is more like inbound leads. Let's say someone's downloaded an ebook, signed up for a webinar, they're already kind of in our marketing ecosystem. Mentioning that is going to be really helpful obviously in the email. But if we don't have that, mentioning something about their company is going to perform 50% better than something about them as an individual or their industry.

Senior prospects are more connected to business outcomes and we want to talk about stuff that's going on at their company. Okay, our second and third lines problem and social proof. What you can see here is that pitch words really kill your reply rates. We want to avoid buzzwords, AI, platform, ROI, all of that stuff can reduce our reply rates by up to 57%. Instead, we want to talk about priority based language and leverage social proof. This is why social proof is so insanely important in emails.

It'll increase your email reply rate by 41% if used properly. Last but not least, we talked about offers. You're 28% more likely to get a reply to your email with a compelling offer. So, we analyze the different types of ways that people end their emails. You can ask for a meeting. This is common taught practice that really gets overused. And it's not that it's bad to ask specifically for their time, but if we just hammer them with six emails in a row asking for time, saying things like, "Can I get 15 minutes of your time?

Are you free to meet tomorrow? Does 2 p.m. work for you this Friday? I'm going to reduce my reply rates by 44%." I can ask for a problem. These are typically open-ended questions. How are you handling XYZ problem at your company? That is a lot of effort to respond to that. It's an open-ended question via email. You do not want to use open-ended questions in emails. If you ask for interest, this is something that was super popular to do two or three years ago when Gong last did this study and they found that hey, if I ask for interest, open to learning more, does it make sense to connect?

Interested in chatting further? This yes or no, am I interested was like a micro commitment to a larger commitment of booking time with you. Now, what rules all when it comes to CTAs is offers interested in seeing how you stack up. Interested in benchmarking ABC company against XYZ company. Can I make a quick intro to soand so expert? So, if I have these I'm going to give you an example, by the way, of what an offer looks like in an email, but if I have these offers, it's going to be really compelling to the prospect and it's going to really help increase the reply rate.

So, here's what an offer looks like in an example cold email. So, I've been using the welding example quite a bit, right? So, subject line, welders, by the way, one word subject line. When my client was using this at that time, 92% open rate. One word, welders. It's the thing that was on the top of mind of every single person they were reaching out to. Hey Luke, saw you're hiring MIG welders and looks like there's a lot of manual rework and touch-up in your welds. Recruiting and retaining top talent is likely a top priority, but the lack of skilled welders in the marketplace right now can cause big production bottlenecks.

Our welding solutions engineer, Paul, is working with hitch manufacturers like Kurt to help overcome the welder shortage and produce consistent highquality welds. interested in a quick intro. Corey, PS, if nothing else, you'll see how your peers are automating the most difficult welds in dealing with the labor shortage. And by the way, as I'm reading that email, I'm like, "Oh, I think there's a few opportunities to actually punch this email up a little bit." But emails like this, we're getting great responses with them.

So, that's what an offer looks like stacked into the email. Key point number three, let's talk about how to leverage AI to help. Cool part is you don't really actually need to do much here outside of editing the email. So, I cannot stress that enough. This is going to give you an email that you need to edit. You didn't have to create it from scratch, but you will need to edit it. So, in this email, it's got all of the best practices that we recommend from the email framework. It's embedded right into this prompt.

Uh, hey, can you craft three cold emails for me? Here's the format it should follow. Here's an example of that. Here are the people that I want it written for. And that's your homework from this module. We've talked about the reply method, the structure for emails. The cool part is that you can use AI again to do a lot of the dirty work for you here. So, start using that prompting with some of the accounts that you've been researching, creating talk tracks for, etc. And let's produce the emails and the sequence that you're going to use to reach out to those prospects.

Look, a prospect can't reply to an email that they don't open. And statistically, it's going to take three or four emails to get them to look at one of those emails if your open rate's somewhere between 25 and 33%, which is which is average. It's not great, but most of you are going to need to send three or four emails to get an open. So, we have to follow up. First thing we're going to talk about is subject lines. How can we grab their attention and and peique their interest enough to open the email?

Because most subject lines look like the ones that you see here on the screen. This is my email inbox. I've highlighted in green some of the ones that stood out to me, but look at the ones in red. Jason, your input affordable stock 2 audit services start at five. I mean, this is the garbage that is in your buyer's inbox probably times 10 because they're in the seauite or at a senior VP level at some big Fortune 500 company and they're literally getting hundreds of emails like this every single week.

The next thing we're going to talk about is follow-ups. Like I said, we have to optimize the follow-ups because prospects are not going to reply to every single email that we send them. So, we need to be really tactful around how we follow up and how often we follow up. What you're going to get from this module is seven subject line formulas. So, some different frameworks and things that you can use. I'm going to give you five bump email frameworks that you can use throughout your sequence. Key point number one, subject lines.

Let's look at what the data shows. One, shorter the subject line, the higher the open rate. Our study shows that anything above five words better be really freaking good. Otherwise, it's going to be too long for the prospect to open it. We really want to emulate what our friend Will Alred at Lavender calls internal camouflage. How do we emulate the look and structure of emails that we send to people that we know? Because we wouldn't send a 10-word long subject line to someone that we don't know.

We wouldn't capitalize every first letter if we didn't know the person, etc. So, stop selling on the subject line. Okay? We want to reference their priorities. And the next set of data shows that if we use AI, numbers, buzzwords, social proof, question marks, and subject lines, these are all things that people don't normally put in their subject lines, that will decrease the open rate by as much as 17%. Using priority based language or empty subject lines are going to have the highest open rates.

And by the way, I don't recommend that you send a bunch of emails with empty subject lines because you're spoofing and fooling the prospect. So there is some noise in the data there. priority based language is going to work the best. So let's look at the different subject line formulas. The first one is what we call pervasive problems. This is where we focus on macro problems most everyone is experiencing. Okay, this is where the example I gave earlier with the welders, we used one word welders.

If it was head of clinical operations, we say participant dropouts. So think about the macro problem that everyone in that industry in that persona is having and we can use that same subject line if we wanted to. Okay. Number two is industry trends. Focus on an industry trend or challenge that every prospect is thinking about. So this could be something that's across the industry, right? So remote engagement might be something if we're that clinical ops person. This is like a uh no different than a cost of acquisition, right?

Every marketer is complaining about high cost of acquisition. Like that could be part of the subject line, right? Number three is company and orwide initiatives. So if you identified a project or initiative for publicly traded companies, by the way, this is really great. If you pulled out a project name, putting that project name in the subject line can be very powerful. So we could use FAPI trial recruitment as an example. Exec leadership quotes. So, if we pulled something from a webinar, a podcast, maybe it was a quarterly earnings call that someone said something on, we could use the person's first name and then comments on subject.

So, Rick's comments on site interest. Uh, number five is people on their team and shared connections. So, if Carol is on the team and she's managing the studies, I could reach out to Carol's, you know, head of clinical ops and say, "Carol's upcoming study." I could reference people that we've had conversations with. That's very, very effective as well. You could do short pattern interrupts. So these are subject lines that really look like more of an off-the-cuff email. Maybe delays. We use that as one word.

Like in clinical ops, that's the number one thing that they want to avoid is project and site delays. So we just use the word delays. So think of the one word that could capture the problem. We're going to use all lowercase there. And then competitor share. So if we're working with a competitor, we could drop their name into the subject line. All of that stuff can work really well. So, those are our subject line formulas. Again, we can use the prompt that we gave you to help us generate some of those ideas.

And let's use some of those frameworks. Key point number two, bump emails. Okay, here's the data on bump emails. They will increase your reply rate if used effectively by as much as 89%. Okay, so when we looked at the types of bump emails, and again, it doesn't mean that you shouldn't use the stuff that the data says doesn't work well. It just means to not overindex with your effort. So if it has case study language, which I find that sharing case studies are effective, but if it's a really long case study and we link to like a five-page PDF or something, that's not going to be very compelling for the reader.

If we can summarize it in two or three sentences, that could be powerful. But case study language could reduce the reply rate by as much as 47%. If we ask for a quick chat, minus 2%. The stuff that really helps to boost the reply rate is thoughts, CTA language, and breakup language. Okay. So, the way that you want to think about the bump emails is you have email one, it's a longer email, right? Email two, I'm going to bump that email. I'm going to reply in the same email chain. I'm going to bump it twice.

I'm not going to send one long email after a row after a row. Okay? So for the buyer, what this does is it helps you continue the narrative and reduces the cognitive load of what to do with the emails. I don't want to have an email chain that has like eight really long-winded emails in it. Okay, so types of bump emails. The interest bump. So the interest bump is super simple. I'm going to send a one-s sentence follow-up email with a variation of the CTA. I'm going to simply ask for interest. Does this align with your 2026 priorities?

Any chance this is top of mind for you? Can I get a shot to share how this could help? Interested in chatting further? Worth a quick chat? So, if I wanted to customize that a bit, that could sound like worth a quick chat to see how this could reduce the need for welders. Does this align with ABC Manufacturing's 2026 priorities? So, the interest bump. I'm just simply going to ask for interest. And that's the only thing that's going to be in that email is that one sentence, the offer bump. Going to repitch the offer.

Okay. Hey, can I connect you with Tom to share how similar hitch manufacturers are dealing with the welder shortage. I ran a cart audit and found three opportunities to increase AOV. Worth a quick chat to dig in. Hey, we benchmarked your response time. Here's how you stacked up with North Face and Colombia. Worth a deeper dive. Right. So, you can do team member introduction, audit findings, benchmarks. There's all kinds of things that you could bump there with the offer that are pretty powerful.

There's the any thoughts bump. It's kind of a a triedand- trueue classic. Any thoughts? First name, any thoughts? Any thoughts on subject? That could sound like any thoughts on reducing the need for devs. There's the quick chat bump. You're simply just going to share like a couple days and times that you can meet. Hey, any chance you're free next Tuesday at 2 p.m. or 3 p.m. Any chance you're free next week? Case study bump. Here's how so and so's at these companies are solving this problem. Here's how ops leaders at Caterpillar are leveraging automation to replace welders.

and I linked to a case study there. Last but not least, the breakup bump. Breakups. What's really important to clarify here is we are not using cheesy breakup emails where we're basically trying to make them feel guilty for not responding. There was this old breakup email that was going around for a while that was basically like, "Hey, uh, are you not responding for one of these three reasons below? Uh, one, you're busy. Two, you already have a solution. Three, you got eaten by an alligator." Like, we're not going to use cheesy stuff like this.

Okay? So, one, we want to redirect. So, maybe we're reaching out to the wrong person. So, that could sound like this. Would this be more relevant for Dave over in manufacturing? The next one is the easy out bump. Okay, the easy way out. Hey Tom, I shared a few ways to help your team increase throughput with automated welding, but I'd hate to keep reaching out if we weren't a fit. Mind letting me know if this is relevant or not? So, those are bump emails. Here's what this looks like in action. So, here's like another example of a full sequence leveraging some of those different bumps.

You have the longer first email, right? Congrats on the FDA approval. I follow that up. Here's more info on how Ultronics reduce startup timelines from 12 to 4 weeks. Any thoughts on connecting with our studies expert Clara, who just helped Sophie reduce startup timelines? Cool. Cool. Key point number three, simple plays that you can run. So, if you click on the link below, we have a get the meeting pack. This has email templates that you can use for conference invites, VIP dinner invites, webinar invites, re-engaging closed loss deals.

It's got our best templates in there. Go make sure to grab it. And again, you can drop those into your AI. It'll help you customize them and all that good stuff and you can immediately use those. So, your takeaways from this section are one, subject lines. It's super important for us to have a compelling subject line that drives it open. A prospect cannot respond to an email that they do not open. So, leverage those seven subject line frameworks. The next thing is follow-up emails. It will take two, three, four emails at least to get an open, if not get a reply.

So, we have to be following up. We got to do it in a tactful way. And I gave you some different frameworks you can use there in your sequences. And then last but not least, leverage the get the meeting pack. There's templates in there that are going to help you based on situations that you come across quickly repurpose emails that you can send out and land meetings with. So, you have all these tools, tactics, frameworks. We've talked about how to use AI, but none of this matters if you don't take action on it.

for you as an individual rep. A lot of this means that I have to find what works best for me and there isn't really a one-sizefits-all solution. So, what we're going to talk about in this module, it's going to be quite a bit different from previous modules in that it's going to be less like hands-on outbound tactics and it's going to be more about how do I fit this into my week? How do I break it down? And it's really important that you figure out your weekly rhythm and where you can fit this in and that you really master your time and how you spend your time and how you exert your energy with this.

So, what I'm hoping that you walk away with is some ideas that will help you dial in your specific weekly rhythm so that everything that you just watched doesn't go to waste. Key point number one, how to activate GSD mode, get done mode. The number one problem that gets in the way, especially in remote working environments, it's this thing right here. It's your phone. It's your computer. It's the social media stuff. It's all of the things that ping you throughout the day that take your attention away from the task.

All of the data, I could point to so many studies show that one, it's basically impossible for you to multitask. Two, you're dumber when you multitask. And three, when you get distracted, it takes a long time to get back into focus. So the first thing I want to do is give you permission to give yourself the opportunity to work in 30 to 60 minute undistracted time blocks. 30 minutes at least. I want to challenge you on how responsive you actually think that you need to be. I'm going to do that in two ways.

One, I think everyone here, if you're a sales leader, would say this to a rep. If they you slack them and they didn't get back to you within 30, 45 minutes because they were making cold calls, I don't think that you would have an issue with that. Okay? So, you do not need to respond to anyone in your company the moment they message you. They can live with you waiting for 30 minutes to message them back. Okay? There's nothing so important that would require you to drop every single thing that you're doing.

That's a Slack message that came through or an email for that matter. You will get a phone call if it's that important. The second thing is that you actually don't need to be as responsive as you think to buyers either. They're very rare exceptions. If you're an enterprise or strat rep and you're working a $1.2 million deal and there are things that you need back and forth to get it to close, yeah, sure, drop what you're doing right now to close that deal. Most of you watching this are not working million-dollar deals.

Most of you watching this, and this is includes me, too. You're selling deals where a buyer could wait an hour to get an email response or text back from you. It's going to make no difference. And the data from Gong here, as you can see on the screen, response time really, it's it's important to respond within 24 hours. Anything beyond that is going to affect your win rate. But anything faster than that doesn't really make a huge difference either. And the sweet spot's really 5 to 10 hours. I don't think any buyer is expecting you to respond and pick up the phone every single time that they reach out to you.

Okay, so here are some things that you can try if this is a challenge. Locking in through a timer. So Pomodoro method can be really really effective. This is, you know, there's there's apps um my wife is a really big fan of physical timers, too. We just bought one and where you can just put 25 minutes on it, but you work 25 or 50 minutes undistracted. So, you do 25 minutes on, five minutes off, or 50 minutes on, 10 minutes off. Okay? Um, turn off your notifications. You should not be having anything on your computer or your phone that when you're trying to write emails or do your prospecting blocks that is pinging you.

Every ping is another decision that you have to make. I've literally watched people sitting at their computer working on something, they get pinged and they pick it up and they do it and they forget what they're doing. I mean, you just can't be productive doing that. Okay. um create a filter that only lets in essential emails. You can do this on Slack, too. I don't know if you can do it on Teams or not, but you can create filters where only certain people can have messages that create a notification.

Mute your Slack and Teams. We've talked about put your phone out of reach unless you're dialing. Key point number two, time audit. One of the things that I am just religious about is time management. And time blocking is one of those very, very basic things you might have been taught, right? block off time for this stuff. I think the most important reason why you should time block is so you actually have a record of how you spent your time. So at the end of each week, what I can do literally hour by hour, at least during the working hours, I can look at and see and really it's actually in 30-inut chunks, what did I spend time on?

How much of that was a revenue generating activity? How much of that was with my team? How much of that was in front of a client? I want you to really get in the habit of time blocking in that way. And what I want to ask you to do first is a time audit. So we have a worksheet here that you can grab below. I want you to think about how many hours per week are you making outbound calls, sequencing or emailing, finding accounts and contacts, doing admin work, doing internal meetings, uh doing sales calls or sales activities, and then doing self-development.

So go ahead and take the time to do that real quick. How many hours per week are you spending on each of these individual activities? Now, as you were doing this, if you can't do a time audit, that is the issue. Okay? So, if you don't know enough about how you spent your week that you cannot audit your week, that is the issue. If you only took one thing away from this module, time block. The most important appointments are the ones that you make with yourself. It's not with other people. Okay? That's not the the the sole purpose of a calendar is not to manage your appointments.

It's to manage the way you spend your time. You can't optimize something that you're not tracking. Okay, so I want you to reflect on your analysis though if you were able to do it. Where do I get the highest ROI in my time? What about my weekly structure is or is not working for me? What key activities do I procrastinate the most? What activities energize me the most? That's a really important one. And what drains me the most? Okay. What I want you to get from that exercise is, is there something that you could do to restructure your week to where you can prioritize the stuff that energizes you?

Maybe you do your call blocks during times that you have higher energy versus lower energy and really step inside of a time machine and think about like the stuff that you could procrastinate this week. Like how could I go ahead in time and think about what are all the things that could come up that would keep me from doing the thing that I know I need to do and how can I reverse engineer that. So that's your time audit. Now let's talk next about how to optimize your week. Part three, optimizing your week, task batching.

This is probably one of the single most important time management lessons I have ever learned is this idea of task batching. It's we're going to break apart the components of a task. So, I'll give you a really silly example. Okay? So, let's say you eat three meals a day, 7 days per week. That's 21 meals. What you probably don't do is approach uh eating like this. You probably don't say, "Oh, it's time to eat breakfast on Monday. Let me go to the grocery store." and you get back from the grocery store, let me cook breakfast.

And then when lunch comes up, you probably don't say, "Let me go to the grocery store. Let me make lunch. Let me eat it. Let me do the same for dinner." You don't approach your meals in that way, right? You break it up. Most of us say, "Hey, let's do our meal prep on Sundays. Let's do our grocery shopping on Sunday." Now, we have some pre-prepared stuff that we can eat Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, etc., right? We break apart the task into different components. The shopping is different from the prep is different from the eating.

We have to approach outbound in the same way. What we should not be doing is saying, "Oh, here's a company I want to reach out to. Let me look and see who I should reach out to. Let me write the email to them. Let me figure out what I want to say on the call. Okay, now let me call them. Let me leave a voicemail they didn't pick up. Let me send a message on LinkedIn." We can't just say every account that we reach out to, let's go through the full cycle of every activity that we need to do all at once.

Each one of those activities requires a different level of mental energy. And there are different time restrictions and requirements around when we could do those activities. For example, we can't really call a prospect at 7:00 in the morning, their time at least. It's too early. You know, we could be doing it during that time. We could be writing emails, right? On Sundays, if we wanted to prep for the week and load up our sequences, we could do that. But we're probably not going to cold call people on Sundays.

So, this concept of task batching is really important. Now, I want to give you the different tasks or GSD blocks we call them, that you can do. One's target selection. It's typically a 60-minute block. All we're going to do is choose the accounts that we want to reach out to, find the contacts, their emails, their phone numbers, etc., and then cue them up in the sequence. This is best done on Mondays and Fridays or at the end of your workday. This is a non-urgent activity. Ideally, you want to get a week ahead.

So hopefully what you're doing on a Friday is you're thinking ahead to the next week and preparing every single person that you want to reach out to. So I'm coming into the week with that already pre-prepared. Okay? It's kind of like putting your workout clothes next to the nightstand if you're going to wake up early and do a morning workout. Next GSD block is call blocks. These are typically 60 to 90 minutes depending on how high your pickup rate is. I like 60 minutes if I'm going to talk to a lot of people.

Uh, we do really like a solution called Titan X, which I'll link down below. Um, they're not a sponsor, uh, but Titan X allows you to essentially give them a list of phone numbers of people that you want to call, and their tool will help you prioritize the ones that have the highest pickup rate. So, they can help you find the pocket of prospects that have like a 25 or 30% pickup rate. I used their data and one during one of the call blocks, I got 10 pickups in one hour. I was freaking exhausted in like 50 minutes.

I did not want to talk to anyone anymore. It was like so many people, right? When I'm used to talking to maybe one or two people in an hour. So, make sure to check out Titan X or let us know if you'd like an intro. So, our call block, we're going to make outbound calls during this time. We want to prioritize this time when the pickup rates are the highest. That's usually going to be Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday mornings, Mondays sometimes, and then Friday afternoons. So, the only caveat to this is if you find that your energy level is not great at 8 a.m.

and you're more likely to procrastinate making calls at that time versus right after lunch, that would be the only caveat. The best time to do something is when you're least likely to procrastinate. Okay. The next GSD block is a sequence or cadence block. So, we've talked about account selection and targeting. We've talked about call blocks. Now, we can go in and start executing on the sequences. This is where we would typically write emails. So, we're going to personalize the emails. We're going to execute the sequence steps.

And this is done outside of outbound calling blocks. We can do this at any time. Emails can be scheduled or queued up. You don't have to do this at any particular time. This is a Monday through Friday activity. Whitespace splits. This is the one I'm most excited about. Think about the whites space in your SK. Just look at your calendar right now. I'm sure there are 30 and 60 minute spots that open up in your calendar on a daily and weekly basis where you have nothing to do during that time. What's really great is to pre-prepare activities that you can do when you have whitespace open up.

So, for example, you can blitz through your no-show meetings. You can blitz through prospects opening emails or connecting on LinkedIn. You can blitz through closed loss deals, webinar leads. Have these lists ready to rock and roll so that you can take advantage of the white space. And again, this is outside of cold calling blocks. The next GST session you can do is what I like to call a weekly lockin. These usually take me an hour to do, but I, you know, I run a business, right? I do marketing, sales, I manage our delivery team.

There's a lot of different stuff that I'm doing. You could probably do this in 15 or 30 minutes if you're just working sales deals or just doing uh outbound prospecting, for example. This is where you're going to plan out your entire week and you're going to reflect on the previous week. I like to do these first thing Monday morning. This might be a Sunday morning activity for you. It might be a Friday, end of day. At some point, you need to be meta about how you spend your time, and you need to schedule time to plan your time.

Okay. Last but not least, daily wrap-up. The last 30 minutes of every single day should be used for CRM hygiene, updating your notes, planning tomorrow, checking your activity, maybe you're doing some self-development. Save this for last. You should not be updating your CRM and using precious willpower at the beginning of your day. save it for the end of the day. So, a couple of other best practices that are pretty interesting here, too. Um, accountability is really an interesting thing. It's it's very powerful to have accountability.

I find that having an accountability partner or accountability buddy, I've heard it called, can be really great. Find someone else on your team. So, this is especially effective for account executives. Like, you're not prospecting and doing outbound all day. Find another account executive or on your team. Organize a couple 1-hour blocks every week where you can do this group workout style. Um, share your schedule with your manager. Set a reminder to send your schedule to your manager every morning.

Hey, here's what I'm going to do. Can you help me hold me accountable to it? Right? Um, you need to create that accountability so that you're not relying on yourself to stay accountable for this. It's much easier to do when you're doing it together with folks. Last but not least, let's look at a couple sample weeks. So, the first one that we're looking at here on the screen is the sample week for an SDR. Now, I understand that your week is not going to go perfectly like what you see on the screen here.

Okay? So, just take some of the principles that you see at play here. So, you can see the stuff in red is a non-revenue generating activity. It's the weekly lockins. It's maybe the one-on-one I do with my manager, team huddles, maybe it's enablement sessions or reporting, forecast calls, etc. You're probably going to have one to two hours of this type of thing every single day. The yellow is things that you do to prep for a revenue generating activity, target selection. And green is the stuff that you do that directly impacts revenue.

So you can see how this rep put target selection on Mondays and Fridays. They prioritize their morning call blocks. They even put the number of activities that they want to make into those call blocks. They have a white whit space blitz on Tuesday, right? They filled up as much as they can on their calendar in advance. So, as an SDR, you may or may not be taking some of these meetings yourself. And you may need some white space on your calendar for someone to plug something in or for a calendar link to book something.

So, you could set some of these calendar invites that you have with yourself. Some of those meetings, you could set it as free on your calendar so that things can be booked over it. But this is an example of what a world-class schedule looks like for an SDR. Now, let's look at a sample weekly schedule for an account executive. So, you can see with an account executive, you're going to be running a lot more meetings. So, again, in red, these are nonrevenue generating activities. These are meetings, enablement sessions, etc.

The yellow is things that support that. So, call prep is going to be really big for an account executive. You got to prep for those sales calls. And there might be more prep that's needed. And in green, what you see is, hey, the call block is the most important thing I can do. Let me rip that out first thing in the morning. And what we've seen the best reps do, and this is what I try to do myself, is I try to push all of my meetings, especially my sales calls, to later in the afternoon. We've also seen that the cancellation rate is much lower later in the afternoon as well.

People don't typically have as many meetings as they would in the morning, for example. So, I'm pushing my sales calls to the afternoon. I'm saving all my debrief admin CRM hygiene for later in the day, very end of the day. And you can see that's where I'm squeezing in my sales calls. So again, this is an example of what a perfect schedule looks like. Try to adopt some of these principles in your schedule so that you can optimize your time. So a couple things here. One, we have to find out what works for us in our weekly rhythm.

Okay? Activate GSD mode. You have to work in undistracted blocks. You have to commit to being undistracted for 30 and 60 minutes at a time. Okay. The second thing is with those GSD blocks, what we need to commit to is task batching. Let's not do all of the activity all at once. Let's break apart the different components of the activity so that we can be more efficient and take advantage of the golden hours when it's best to get a hold of the prospect. And lastly, take a look at those example schedules.

If you're not already blocking your time like this so that you can retroactively look at how you spent it, start with that. That's the biggest takeaway from this module. If you're not doing that, if you are doing that, see if you can take one or two of the principles away from how the ideal schedule looks and how you could optimize yours. All right, congrats. You have everything that you need to fill your pipeline with qualified opportunities just like the clients that we've worked with at Gong, Zoom, Shopify, Ripling, all things that they've used to increase their pipeline by more than 20%.

So, we worked through a couple of things. One, the foundation. We talked about the outbound equation, the different parts of the methodology that you need in order to be successful and make outbound repeatable. We talked about prioritization and really why outbound is about saying no and using that martinis shaped pipeline where we're going to shrink the top of funnel and go deep on fewer opportunities. We also talked about messaging. This idea of hey we need to move from product voice to customer voice.

We need to not push our stuff onto the buyer. We need to create a pull effect by aligning to something that they already care about. The second section we talked about was reason to meet. That's where we went into the offer. We need a great compelling reason. We talked about good, better, and best offers and the blind date especially. We need a great reason for them to join the meeting with us even if they decide not to buy our solution. We talked about triggers. These are things that once we've talked about industry level stuff, persona level stuff, these are ways that we can make it specific to their company and specific to them as an individual.

Then we talked about leveraging AI because ain't nobody got time to spend hours researching an account, right? How do we leverage AI to find and surface some of these triggers? And then to help us with a lot of the worldclass execution, which was the third section, right? That was all about omni channel outreach and the sequencing, phones, gatekeepers, voicemails, emails, the weekly rhythm, all of the soft skills that you need to be successful. All right, so at this point, you're probably in one of two situations.

one, you're like good to go and rocking after this. You got the content that you needed, you're rocking and rolling with it, and I'm really glad that you got a ton of value after the master class. The second position you might be in is you might be thinking, "Hey, this is a lot of great stuff. It would really help if we could customize and tailor this for our organization." So, if you're a sales leader or sales enablement leader, or if you're a rep and you have a sales leadership team that wants to really make an outbound pivot, you're being asked to do more outbound, maybe you guys are moving up market into more enterprise, or maybe you want to prospect more into the customer base.

That's definitely step that we've helped companies like yours with. So, what we're offering right now is a free outbound audit. So, if you have 20 or more reps, you can click the link below and sign up for an audit. We'll actually go through and look at how you're doing outbound right now. We'll benchmark it for you against, you know, Shopify, Zoom, Ripling, Gong, etc. And we'll give you some really key insights that you can put into action immediately to produce more pipelines. So, if that's a fit for you, go ahead and click the link below.

We'd love to talk to you.
