# Outbound Masterclass: The ultimate guide to building qualified pipeline in 2026

**Expert:** Jason Bay

**Rank:** 2

**Metadata Score:** 105

**Published:** 2026-05-04

**Duration:** 00:57:29

**Views:** 312

**Likes:** 6

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jT123K0R6co

---

# Transcript

Let's get started. So, this is the third part of a three-part series. If you've missed the first two sessions, no worries. We're going to send out all the recordings. We'll make sure it gets uh to your inbox. We're going to have it on YouTube. All of that kind of good stuff. Uh today we're going to kind of step back and instead of digging really deep into cold calling and objection handling like we did the last two sessions, we're going to zoom out a little bit and talk a little bit more about the strategy and things that will enhance both of those channels along with email and and all of that great stuff.

So to set today's uh session up, I wanted to ask you, let me know in the chat, how many of you have set up whether it's through Google Voice or through your iPhones, how many of you have set up like the screener to where the AI, you know, will pick up the call, ask the person why they're calling, all of that good stuff. Yeah, let me know in the chat. Yeah, surprising number of of people. I was looking at the stats. I think only 10 or 20% of people have even set up uh this function, but it's going to be something that we see from a lot of our buyers.

And the reason I asked this is I don't know if anyone else is feeling this, but I've I've been doing outbound specifically in this way from a B2B standpoint since 2012, but we really started working with a lot of the tech sales teams, especially in 2016, 2017, 2018. And it's never been harder. the the only time that I can remember that's been harder for outbound is when you had to do it the old school way and like you didn't have access to emails and phone numbers and you had to go door to door.

Like that was a really rough time. Um I'm still fairly youngish so I didn't have to really do do as much of that. But it's really never been easier for buyers to just ignore you and your entire sales work. The average cold email reply rates less than 1%. The average pickup rates 5.4%. That's a stat from Gong. Like honestly with the clients that we work with when I really start to look I've seen pickup rates as low as 1.3%. With folks that are using dialers and you know all kinds of crazy stuff. So outbound really it's it's fundamentally changed.

It's fundamentally changed in the last two or three especially uh two or three years especially with the advent of AI. So, what I want to cover with you today, and let me stop screen sharing real quick because I need to reddownload these slides because an image is not popping up. Let me just open up another one real quick. Oh, perfect. This one's working. Okay. So, what we're going to talk about today is what's changed with Outbound. All right. And again, for those of you just joining, this is the third session in a three-part series that we've done this week.

Um, we're going to talk about what's changed high level in the approach, what you need to be doing differently. We're going to talk about how to disqualify and avoid wasting hours pursuing bad fit accounts because you can be world class. You can be the best cold caller in the world, but if you're calling into the wrong accounts and the wrong people, none of that really matters. Uh, we're going to talk about how to leverage AI. We're going to talk about some phone and email best practices, how to build offers, and I've already talked to you a lot about the outbound master uh class uh which you will get access to later today.

I'm going to open it up uh within a probably 30 60 minute period right after this webinar so that everyone can get access to it. There's one more thing that I just have to make sure that is working with the workbook. But if you have not yet and you want to get access later today to the outbound masterclass course, I'll drop the link into the chat. Make sure you go check it out there in the chat. Get signed up. You'll get access later today. So Dom says, "Yeah, the course is not working. It's not available yet, but you want to make sure to get signed up there so that you're in the platform and that you will get notified when it goes live.

And for those of you that are unaware of, you know, what we do at Outbound Squad and who we are, the the number one thing that we help with is top offunnel pipeline creation. So that's the outbounding that you're being asked to do. It's the cold outreach that you're being asked to do. It's the pipeline building as an an AE with self-sourcing, as an SDR, if you're running a team, all of that great stuff. And we've gotten a chance to do that with some really great companies and trained about 20,000 plus reps across 250 teams in the last four or five years.

So without further ado, let's get to it. I I want to talk about why outbound is so hard. So, how did we get to the point today where AI is able to replicate what an average, in my opinion, SDR could do from an email standpoint. Um, how we leverage it properly in the tech stack, like why it's so hard to get a hold of people. I, you know, the experience really is that, hey, I send a lot of emails these days and a lot of it goes to spam and when I try calling people, not a lot of people pick up. So, how did we get here?

Uh, I want to give you a brief history lesson. Okay, so from 2011 to 2022 was what I would call the predictable revenue era. Uh, let me know in the chat. Has anyone here heard of predictable revenue or read the book predictable revenue by Aaron Ross? Let me know in the chat. Give me a yes. Give me a no. Okay, a lot of you have. So, predictable revenue was this concept pioneered by Aaron Ross and and I'm a very big fan of him in the book. So, this is not a knock on him in any kind of way. Oh, awesome, Bob.

Yeah. And Mary Lou is the co-author. Mary Lou Tyler. Um, so they really popularized this concept of we're going to separate the prospecting and outbound work from the selling work from the account management work. So, we're going to create sales development reps who do outbound because you know what? If you're a closer and you're an account executive, it's below you. It's beneath you to do outbound. You shouldn't be doing that, right? That is the job of a firsttime seller. That's not my thinking.

That's that was kind of the thinking in this model. And the account management was like, hey, an account executive should just be in charge of bringing a new business. We should have someone else in charge of the farming, right? So is this kind of Henry Ford meets sales approach. How can we take an assembly line approach to sales? And this is back when we had doubledigit reply rates. people picked up their their phone and this model was very predictable but it was a very highly volume dependent.

Okay, what that gave birth to was what I call the sales engagement gold rush. So for some of you younger folks out there, there was a time and place where outreach and sales loft did not or gong engage, they did not exist. Um I'm old enough to remember and again I'm not saying I'm super old or anything. I'm 37, but I'm old enough to remember a time where when you sent emails, there was no sequencing tool. You had to manually send all the follow-ups. Uh, Tout app came out and it would give you a task to send the follow-up, but it wouldn't even thread it in the same email chain.

So this predictable revenue era gave birth to this sales engagement gold rush were literally outreach and sales loft become multiple billions of dollars in valuation at least and they built tools and workflows that supported that movement in the motion. So now what you have these companies explode from 2016 to 2022. You won't find, at least in tech, it's very hard to find a sales team that does not have access to a sequencing tool of some sort that literally at the click of a button allows you to mass blast and send emails to your entire total addressable market.

Okay, so we experienced the great correction. So VC money dries up in 2022 and a third of SDR teams got cut. And now all of a sudden as an account executive, we're being asked to self-source pipeline, right? And instead of growth at all costs, it's how can we be as efficient as possible? And that's g given birth to the AI era, which we are now in. I don't know if y'all are seeing this. I'm literally seeing in certain companies them decide to part ways with their entire SDR team and just leverage AI.

Um, or they say, "Hey, all of the inbound leads, the quoteunquote good leads, the case study signups, the webinar signups, all that stuff, we're not going to allow reps to touch that. We're going to do that with AI." And I believe that we're about to enter an era where human correction comes in, right? Buyers are burnt out on AI spam and they want an expert human. Okay, so really the big problem is that we have all of these tools that were designed to make our jobs easier. They ironically have made it much much harder because so many people have access to the inbox and the phone numbers and the LinkedIn profiles.

It's made our job harder. The second thing that's very challenging is a lot of you have probably been taught some sort of sales methodology. Medic, Medpek, Bant, uh, Challenger, Snap selling, spin selling. I mean, there's so many sales methodologies. I cannot think of a single outbound methodology. Outbound really has been relegated to this. Hey, here's a talk track and a few email templates like, and a tool, a sequencing tool. Go get after it. Right? It's also incredibly hard to be a buyer right now.

Let's take uh I work in a deal right now with a company that sells restaurant tech. They literally have thousands of competitors. Over half the people that buy products like theirs experienced buyers regret. And there's certainly a lot of macro economic uncertainty. And this is what's going on with buyers. We're seeing longer sales cycles, more stakeholders involved, smaller deal sizes. And here's the good news and out uh bad news for outbound. It's made outbound a lot tougher. But the good news is there's there's quite a wide range uh a wide delta between good and average.

Top performers connect with more folks on cold calls. They book more meetings. It's the same thing with email. We just did a big study of 85 million cold emails with Gong. Top performers get twice the opens, four times the replies, and book almost eight times the meetings. So, the key idea here before we get into some of the tactics for today is that average no longer works. You can't just be someone that picks up the phone and makes a lot of calls and puts in the activity. No different than you can't be a sales rep that just shows up to sales calls, works really hard, but doesn't apply best-in-class techniques, tactics, and strategies.

So, we're in an era, a new era, where we're calling it too good to ignore. If you want to stand out amongst all of the AI garbage that is out there in people's inboxes right now, and I'm not anti-AI, but by the way, I'm very pro AI. I've been vibe coding a lot. I don't know if anyone's been vioding a lot in the last three or four weeks, but I've built like four internal applications for our company, and I know like nothing about coding. It's been pretty cool. But this era I'm calling too good to ignore because you have to be so good that you stand out and the buyer cannot help but want to meet with you.

And the three pillars that we're going to talk about today. So across the 250 plus sales teams and 20,000 plus reps. What's really cool with the amount of companies and reps we've worked with is that we get to see what the top 10 or 20% of reps do. And here are the three things. They ruthlessly disqualify. So they're extremely picky. They don't just disqualify during the sales process. They disqualify before they even decide to send an email or make a phone call. So the whole idea is there is that instead of going wide across their entire account list, they shrink it down to the opportunities that they should work right now and they go really deep in those opportunities.

We're going to talk about how to do that. The second thing is offer. They make consultative and strategic uh strategic gifts to buyers early to earn their time. So they aren't just asking for demos or asking for time to share their stuff. They make offers and I'm going to talk in detail about what those look like today. I gave you a little bit of a preview yesterday on that. And last is provoke. So they engage buyers with a strong point of view that compels them to take action right now. and I'm going to teach you a messaging framework that you can use that will apply across all of your emails, phone calls, etc.

All right, cool. So, before we dig in, as I'm going through this, there's a Q&A section. If you have questions, please drop them in there. I want to answer as many questions as we possibly can today and try to uh customize as much of the information that you're seeing. So, Q&A button down in there at the bottom of Zoom. If you have something specific that you'd like me to take a look at or to answer, that's the place to do it. So, let's talk about disqualify. The big key idea here is that most reps lose before they ever dial or send an email.

Most of the attempts, those dials and the emails that they do end up actually making are into entirely the wrong accounts. So, one of the best lessons that I've been taught in my sales career, been doing this since 2007, is the concept of the martini glass shaped pipeline. It's this idea that we don't want our pipeline to look like a traditional pipeline. We want to shrink the top of funnel and then work the opportunities deeper. I was just interviewing the CRO of a company called Go Motive. His name's Adam Block.

It's a 30,000 person sales. the uh podcast is going to go live here I think in about a month or so. But what he said was, "I have never not seen that when we give reps fewer accounts that they get better results." And it's sort of counterintuitive, right? It's sort of counterintuitive in the sense that you would think that you would want more opportunities to work, but every time they shrink the account list down, the reps end up working those accounts much deeper and having much better results.

So, that's what I want you to think about the first layer. So, let's get into some of the what and howto here. You want to filter based on the account level fit. So, if you're a rep here, what I would look at, depending on your sales motion, um, if you sell maybe mid-market to enterprise, you might look at your last 10 or 15 closed one deals. If you're selling, uh, SMB, maybe you look at your last 50 deals, okay? And what I want you to look at is let's look at trends in the closed one and closed loss deals around how easy the sale happened.

So if you're an SDR or BDR, what you might do is take a look at some of the account executives that you support like their sales pipelines, right? Where they win, where they lose, etc. We're going to look for three patterns, highest win rates. The cool part you guys is that AI can do most of this analysis for you. Now, so if you're able to get that data or if you have Claude hooked up to your Salesforce or if your company allows you guys to leverage AI and interact with Salesforce or pull reports and that sort of stuff, um you can do this like within minutes.

Uh I'm going to look for the largest deal sizes, uh shortest sales cycles. So I'm going to look at these three criteria and then I'm going to do some deep demographic research as well. So what industries are these? What's the size of the company? Are they growing headcount wise? What's the revenue band? Do they have specific tech stack requirements? Do I sell something maybe that involves physical locations or department size or geography, funding stage? Do I need to know any of that kind of stuff?

And last but not least, and this is what I feel like is most underrated. Where do you personally have a lot of knowledge or passion? Because that's going to come out. Where are you most convicted? Right? if you were someone that worked in that industry in the past, like maybe you focus more on those because it's where your customer base is, right? So, yes, this is what you want to do is uh your your ideal client profile is what we're thinking about here. And you want to go much more narrow than what the ideal client profile that your company has handed you.

So, how can you go super narrow? I want to pause here. Um, for those of you here engaging in the chat, I would love to hear from you. What's one way that you can narrow down your outbound efforts and your ideal client profile based on what you see here on the screen? Are there certain industries or subindustries or companies of a certain size? Like what I want you to avoid doing is saying, "Yeah, we work with any software company." Um, even for us, we work primarily with SAS. I'd say a third of the companies that we work with are professional services and all kinds of just different random stuff.

But twothirds of them I can't just say SAS it's there are uh this the type of sales motion SMB mid-market uh enterprise there's the size of the sales or there's do they have an SDR team or not there's their buyers right a lot of the people that buy our training and consulting services want to know hey have you worked with a cyber security client before have you worked with someone that sells into small businesses have you worked with someone that sells an HR solution do understand our buyer. It can get so much more niche than that, right?

So, what I'm seeing in the chat here, so David says industry. Yeah, Cole says state uh compliance requirements. Dylan, where have we been winning? Recent funding. Allan asks, "How do I negotiate with management to cut my AE countdown from 8 to four because eight e Oh jeez, Allan is supporting eight account executives?" That is insane, Alan. Um, Allan, I think one of the one of the things that you need to talk about is how how thin your efforts are being spread because that's probably eight different meetings that you need to do each week with the account executives and it's really hard for you to get like really good at your job if you're spread that thin.

So, I would ask to do a twoeek test maybe with four instead of eight. Yeah. Matt says, "You can do AI research based on all the data on your own company." Yes. Awesome. Cool. So, I want to do this account level fit uh first and then I want to do contact level fit. So, I really like uh MedPek. I really like their approach to persona. So, I'm going to use some of their language. Medpek, for those of you guys that are unaware, it is a deal qualification framework. Force management really came out with this and kind of popularized it, but it's a way to uh essentially manage an enterprise deal by the metrics, the economic buyer, decision-m criteria, decision-m process.

It's kind of like a checklist of things that we can do. I like how they talk about personas. There are champions and coaches. So the the the type of uh personas that we want to go after with champions and coaches, there's a big difference between a champion and a coach. So a champion is someone that has insight at the company. They have authority and most importantly, they're willing to go to bath for you. So a coach often times we confuse as a champion in deals because they're buddy buddy with us.

They're letting us know all the dirty details and you know they're there to pick up the phone when we call and they respond to the texts but they don't have a lot of influence right they're not able to get us the meeting that we need with that senior person so I always like to think about like the buyer persona that is your champion like look at the deals that have been closed either by you or by your SDRs or your account executives rather who do those first meetings tend to be with because it's usually not always the economic buyer who if you're selling cyber security let's say the economic buyer might be the CISO that's probably not going to be your champion though you're probably not engaging with this person on a day-to-day basis right so economic buyers who are the people that you want to end up getting the meetings with Yeah Cassandra I love the uh the medic history lesson lesson there in the chat.

Yeah, really cool. Good stuff there. Uh, so there's influencers and users. These are the people that use the product. What I've noticed, if you sell a really technical product or solution, a lot of times our clients, like if you sell like a database solution, you might be meeting with someone at an IC or manager level, right? That might be your first meeting with someone that's really technical that also has a lot of influence. And then the blockers, who do we want to avoid? Okay. Uh, so I'd love to hear with from you in the chat like what is the buyer that you're like, "Hey, this is the most important person I can get a first meeting with." It's not going to be the person that probably approves the budget, but in terms of to use challenger speak, the person that will mobilize the deal.

Uh, drop the typical job title for me in the chat. Who is that for you? Yeah, an HR director. Kate says, "It director, engineers or developers." Yeah. Chief lending officer, design engineer, CFO, Scott says, or David says rather. Yeah. Co-founders. Great stuff. Okay. So, I want to answer a couple questions. Uh Cole asks, "When pulling account level ICP analysis, is a time frame relevant? Yeah. So, yeah. So, what I would do is I would look at the last six months tops. If you sell something that maybe has enterprise sales cycles, you might look at the last 12 to 18 months if the sales cycles are really long.

But I want to see a couple iterations of a sales cycle. Typically, in two quarters for most of you, besides the ones that are selling enterprise, is going to be pretty sufficient. All right. And let me just look here in the chat. Okay, cool. And then Lane asked, "Does this master class cover different information than these three uh classes this week?" Uh yeah, so Blaine the master class the course is yeah a lot of it is like on demand information that I've trained live but it's got like we didn't talk about voicemails really.

We didn't talk about how to handle gatekeepers. Like there's that stuff in there. We didn't talk about email at all. That's in there. It's it's three hours of it's free, dude. So uh just just go check it out. Um okay, cool. Let's keep rolling. So we've talked about the first piece around disqualified. So the most important thing that you can do is figure out where to point your effort and most importantly who you are going to say no to. That is just as important if not more important as who you say yes to.

The next thing is the offer. Okay. This piece is like if there's one thing that you took away from this week that will amplify every single thing that you do that I just don't see hardly anyone talking about if you consume LinkedIn content or podcast content. I see many organizations that aren't thinking about this. The offer is what am I giving the buyer in return for spending time with me? And I kind of challenged you guys a little bit on this yesterday in the call. Uh when we did a study with Gong on cold email, what we found is that hey, when you ask for a meeting at the end of the email, it could tank your reply rate by as much as 44%.

So it could cut your reply rate almost in half if you're constantly asking, "Does next Tuesday work for you? Are you free tomorrow? Are you free later this afternoon?" If I'm asking if they have a problem, people are a bit little bit reluctant to answer that via email. But if I'm asking for interest, hey, would this be interesting to talk about further? Or if I'm making an offer, which I'm going to give you a bunch of examples of what offers look like here in a second. The reason why the buyer takes meetings is they either have an immediate problem that someone like you can help with, which statistically that's only 3% of your market.

the other 97% like you need to engage them with FOMO of some sort. And by FOMO, what I mean is like are you offering to share something that is insightful that they would want to stay ahead on some insight, something about their peers, their competitors, etc. The way that I think about the offer is your job is to make an offer that they would feel irresponsible of saying no to. So let's let's look at what that might look like. Uh there are three levels of offers. There's three levels. Um I'm going to give you the easiest one to implement first.

That is it's not that it's not effective, but is the least effective. I'm going to give you the hardest one to implement last, which is the most effective if you pull it off correctly. The first offer is what I call selling the blind date. So, I don't know if anyone here has ever set up a blind date for their friend or gone to a blind date themselves, but the whole point of getting someone to show up to a blind date is you hype up the person that they're going to be on a date with, right? You talk about how cool your friend is and how awesome they are and how rad of a dude uh the guy is, right?

So, you need to do the same thing for the person you're setting meetings up for. Okay? So, if you're an SDR or setting up a meeting with your account executive, you should talk about how experienced they are, right? Hey, I'd love to connect you with Dave. He's got a decade of experience with companies like Caterpillar. He'll walk you through how they're automating hard to automate welding parts and dealing with the current labor shortage. Right. Uh, hey, I want to connect you with Rob. He's our HR specialist.

He will talk about how companies like yours are dealing with um I don't know uh it could be the layoffs that are going on on in tech right now. He'll talk about how uh companies are uh improving their compensation plans and staying on top of that to retain their best talent, right? There's all kinds of stuff. So, you got to think about what is the expertise that they are going to get from that call. uh if you're an account executive and you're selling yourself, talk about your experience, right?

And this is an a client example from someone that sells an edtech. I noticed a lot of people sell an edtech that are former teachers and they don't even tell the prospect that they've been a teacher before and that they've been like in the seat of the person that they're selling to. Um, the other thing that you could say too if you don't have firsthand experience with that is like, um, hey, um, what we can talk about in our next call, Lyle, is, you know, I've worked with a lot of small, uh, businesses and restaurants here in the Seattle area.

I'll talk about what's working really well for them to, uh, improve the amount of catering business that they can, uh, capture from some of the big local companies like Facebook and and Meta and Amazon here, right? So, sell yourself, right? Um, sell the solutions expert. Um, write the word yes in the chat for me. If you have a solutions expert of some sort hop on the first sales call with you because you sell something kind of technical, whether it be cyber security or some sort of data project, a uh product.

Yeah, Claudia says, "Yes, it's me." So sometimes if you're going to have a solutions expert come to the call like pitch them um hey for this first call I I'm going to invite Christine to the call. She's our cyber security expert. She actually worked firsthand with PepsiCo and Costco and she'll be able to walk you through how they were thinking about their OT environments and I think it'll be really insightful for you to hear that based on the work that you're doing at XYZ company. Yeah. So uh Milona says we have an automative automotive BDC communication tool.

Hey, I'm going to bring our automotive uh BDC uh communication specialist uh to the call. Uh this person has a lot of expertise on like how these communication rhythms can be built into the products that you guys are building. Right? So sell the solutions expert. Lastly, power to power. If you were able to to secure a meeting with someone really prominent, um, and let's say they're a VP plus title, you could offer to bring your VP, too, right? Um, hey, you know what we can do? Uh, here, David, um, I have a setup, uh, have a setup for 2 p.m.

Uh, let me see if I can bring our VP of marketing into the meeting as well. Um, be happy to kind of broker that intro and and make sure that you guys can share best practices on what you're seeing. And this would be for like a a great like logo that you just secured a meeting with, right? So, sell the blind date. This can be the reason uh to meet. Cool. Good so far. Every single one of you out of all the offers that I'm going to share today, every single one of you can start doing this today. Think about how you're going to pitch the thing that they are going to learn.

Okay? One to many insights. And this, by the way, like a lot of what I'm talking about today is not because we already talked about it. I'm not talking about how to cold call better. I'm talking about a tool that you can insert into the cold call or the cold email to make it better. Okay? So that you can get a better response from that. Uh one to many insights are the second type of offer. So, if you have proprietary data, benchmarks, or research that's valuable to an entire segment, um you can really do this work once and then leverage it across dozens or hundreds of accounts.

Some of this is going to be harder to pull off than others. This first example is going to be really hard to pull off as a rep unless you have a great marketing team. Okay? But I want to give you an example of like what's possible. Okay? So, uh we had a client that sells a customer support solution into companies like Patagonia, Northace, and Columbia. Their marketing team mystery shopped 300 ecom companies and benchmarked typical reply rates. Uh the time it takes to respond. Yeah. So Mark says benchmarks are actually what we sell.

Dude, Mark, this might be kind of interesting to like pull out a benchmark or two as like an example of the data, right? Um so the way that they would do cold calls with this and I would listen to these recordings and it was just like awesome. They'd say, "Uh, hey Dave, it's Jason. I'm calling because your chat response time is about three times longer than the North Face in Colia. Do you got a minute for sure for me to share the reason for my call? And every single time the prospect would almost have like a little bit of anger in that moment.

They'd be a little triggered. They're like, "Wait, wait, what?" Cuz they hear their competition. They hear that they're not as doing as well as their competition. Like it was an immediate emotional visceral response, which is really what we want. Okay. So, how can you leverage this? Oh, let me go back. Um, you guys, AI allows you to create some of these really great insights. Um, so if your company doesn't have something like this and let's say that um you're Malona and you sell to uh into automotive companies, which or car dealerships, I'm not quite sure the segment that you sell into.

I guarantee you could use Perplexity, Chat PBT, you could leverage uh Claude's obviously really popular right now. You could leverage the deep research function in these tools to build an insight like this that captures trends across an entire market that you could share. The key idea is that those trends lead back to the problems that your solution solves. If you look at the mystery shopping example, they specifically looked at things that are hard for a company to do by themselves. 247 chat. They looked at uh the number of channels that they provide, right?

adding phone, email, and uh instant chat, right? They looked at the um hours in which they operate, right? These are like really hard things for them to pull off by themselves and they purposefully did that because it exposes this problem that leads to their solution. That's that's the key idea here. Okay, let's talk about onetoone insights. I would reserve these types of insights primarily for any of you that are selling enterprise or strategic or if you run a team that is selling enterprise or strat uh because these are customized.

They take a long time to uh to they can take a long time to do. This is something that's handcrafted. So, uh, one of the best examples was, you know, a different company I worked with that sold into ecom, you know, they would literally go on like Home Depot site, let's say, and Home Depot had a really big strategic initiative around same day delivery, and what they would go through and look at is all of the zip codes that didn't provide that functionality because something was broken inside of their system.

So, they would do like a cart audit. they would try to buy something or they would buy something and they would put together a short document which again AI allows you to do this really fast now where they would do a cart audit and expose all of these things that the company was not doing that were frankly leaving revenue on the table. So if you can visually see something that is a problem because you help with something that is online in their website etc that's great. You can provide a risk or opportunity assessment.

Uh there are many audits that you can offer. Uh you can offer to do a benchmark report. You can say, "Hey, um you if I sell into school districts, for example, hey, we worked with the LA school district and a few others. Um uh I would love to compare your stuff to their stuff and you know, show some of the areas where they're connecting the learning gap uh faster than you might be, etc." Right? You can offer to provide a workshop. This is really big, right? Hey, I want to bring a couple of our SCEs in and we can do a short workshop on what we see working with XYZ companies.

If you have something where you can give a small trial, pilot or data sample if that's applicable to what you sell, that's a great thing to do as well. Okay, so I've talked about before we move to the next one actually I've talked about selling the blind date. I've talked about one to many insights and I've talked about these onetoone handcrafted tailored insights. I would love to know from you in the chat what's your biggest takeaway from this? What what do you think that you could leverage? What type of offer do you think that you could leverage after this call?

What do you have the most energy around? What do you think might be most effective? What do you think might work for you? I'd love to hear from you in the chat. Yeah, Dorian says, "Offer two for law firms." Yeah. So, Dorian, it sounds like you sell something that is very verticalized around law firms. That's even better, right? So, you can be really specialized with the offer. Yeah. Onetoone insights, mini audits, trends that link back to your solution. And again, this is something I would leverage AI to help you build if you need to build something that's onetoone or one to many.

Uh yeah, Mark, let me show you this because you might not get the slides right away. If you want to take a screenshot of that. Cool. All right, team. Let's keep going. We got about 20 minutes left. I want to make sure we have some time for Q&A. Third part of the too good to ignore framework is provoke. So, the idea here is that, okay, can we disqualify and like narrow down who we're going after? Yes. And can we make a really great offer? Yes. But if we don't have provocative messaging that really hits on like the problem or that feels like unique in some sort of way, a lot of this can land pretty flat.

The challenge that I've seen is this. So, I would love for you to guess. I took the value prop statements off the LinkedIn profiles of three companies that we all know and love and I redacted their company names. I would love for you in the chat, can you guess which companies these are? I give you a second to read it. These are essentially their value prop statements. And this is no knock on any of these companies. I love these companies. But what do you guys notice about these statements? And are you able to guess who these companies are?

Yeah, Anthony says, "Do they all kind of sound the same?" I I would agree with that. It's AI. Is it clay sales force zoom info it's outreach gong and sales loft and clary why am I showing you this couple reasons one Again, I love all three of these companies. It's it's no knock on these companies. As a sales rep, if I'm reaching out and my messaging sounds like what you see here on the screen, it's going to blend in with every single other vendor that sells what you sell. Uh yeah, April, it feels generic.

It's because it is. It's super generic. Uh Rahuna, I hope I'm pronouncing your name correctly. Corporate speak. This is just not how a human talks. It's a lot of like what they do, like all of that kind of stuff to your buyer. You all look and sound the same if you if you communicate like that. So 56% of buyers, I shared this earlier, experience high regret. So in other words, they experience buyers regret. So they've been burned before. They've probably bought a solution like yours, right? The gong stat.

91% of buyers feel like sales reps don't understand them or their role. Okay? So like in sales especially with outbound we're already starting from behind the starting line you guys. Okay. So what we came up with there's a three-part framework. We call it reason to meet and it's got the three T's. We've been teaching this for a while now. Um I think we're coming up on a decade actually. This year we've been a business for a decade now. So 2016 to 2026 and then for three or four years prior to that I was doing a lot of outbound myself and running teams and that sort of stuff.

And you know the thing that was always really hard for me was we had a different framework for cold calling than we had for cold email and for LinkedIn DMs. It was all these different frameworks on how to communicate in that channel. And what we've really started to refine is well how can we take one framework that we can like shift a bit and tailor to that channel but doesn't change entirely across the channel so you don't have to think about what do I do in a cold call versus a cold email. We wanted to make those the same.

And what we came up with that's just been so amazingly effective with the companies that we've been working with is this idea of trigger tension trust. Every single outbound message must contain these three elements. The trigger answers why now. It's what makes this conversation timely. So ideally, the trigger is something going on inside of that company. So if I sell an HR solution, it's I saw that you're hiring internationally in France and Italy. If I sell cyber, it's I saw you just opened up a new plant in Dallas, right?

If I sell, I don't know, an ecom solution. It's I was on your website and tried to check something out. I saw that you guys are running a campaign around XYZ product right now. Trigger. What is something about their company that is going on? Right. Tension. This is the why change question. So, I need to know why now should I pay attention and then why should I change? What pressure can I use to create action? This is the problem. So, I see this thing going on. Trigger tension is I'm guessing you might have this problem if you're like your peers.

And then trust. It's social proof. Social proof when leveraged properly, especially in a cold email or studies with gong shows, it increases reply rates by as much as 52%. You guys, so it's not just dropping a name of a company. It's I need to show you that I've worked with companies like yours in a similar situation. If you reach out to Outbound Squad and say, "We've helped Amazon and and Google," I'm like, "That's cool, but we're not Amazon and Google." The only thing Jeff Bezos and I have in common, I think I have more hair than him, actually.

Um, is that we're bald, dude. Like, that's that's the only thing I have in common. Like, there's there's nothing that I have in common with like Amazon and their business or anything like that, right? So, trust, it's like how am I leveraging social proof? So, it's trigger, tension, trust. If you could just keep that framework in mind for every message, whether it's my pitch in a cold call, which I'm going to show you here in a second, or my cold email or my LinkedIn message, if you can keep those three things in mind, you're going to do really, really well.

So, the way that this might look in a cold call is this. Um, you know, I call Dana and I do, uh, hey Dana, I saw that you guys are uh doing some international hiring in Italy and France. It's Jason. Do you mind if I take a minute to share the reason for my call? So that's the trigger right there. I could also use the trigger in the next part of the call and say, "Hey, again, looks like the team is expanding internationally tension." Sometimes this creates a ton of compliance headaches that require lawyers and really take away from the HR team being able to focus on hiring and culture.

We work with several staffing companies in the Seattle area where you're at to make it easy to be compliant so that you could be more strategic. I'm curious how does that compare to what you're seeing at XYZ company. This is the cold call approach right here. Trigger tension trust. I saw this thing. I think you might be dealing with this. We recently helped someone with that. How does that compare to what you're seeing and experiencing? It's the same structure for email. Trigger tension trust. Congrats on the international expansion in Italy and France.

Not sure if you're into uh compliance headaches with that. If you're running into there's a typo there. We see it a lot with lawyer involvement and admin that takes time away from hiring and culture building. We've worked with a few similar firms in Seattle to improve compliance and take admin task off their plate. I'd like to offer you a complimentary compliance on it with your our HR specialist free next week. Trigger tension trust. Trigger tension trust. So once you're able to really refine this framework and I'll show you kind of like in the outbound master class there's a whole messaging uh module that will help you populate some of the messaging that you can plug in for this but this is the universal framework.

This is the universal framework. So Mark in the chat says the struggle is how to personalize but still move fast. U Mark it kind of depends on what you're selling. if you could let me know in the chat like maybe give me your average deal size Melissa as well. Uh what's what's your average your ASP your average sales price your average deal size what an annual agreement looks like how big is what you're selling and I can give you like kind of a way to think about it. Yeah. So Kul says 18k 25k. Yeah.

So, if if you're selling something that is a bit more SMB or small mid-market, um your trigger might be an industrywide trigger. So, I've been using that welding example a lot. Maybe your trigger is, hey, I was giving you a call. What we're seeing across the industry right now is that it's really hard to secure welding talent. And I imagine tension that you might be running into that with some of the trailer parts. It looks like you guys are manufacturing over there. We recently helped Caterpillar navigate this challenge.

I'm curious, how does that compare to what you're seeing? So, the trigger might be something I could apply across the entire industry instead of having to do it on an individual basis. So, for someone like Scott Thomas, uh, David Julia, 160K, 400K, 800K, I would expect you to do deep research on the account so that you know exactly what's going on. Because if you land a meeting with an account that has an $800,000 deal size potential, dude, it's worth you spending 2030 minutes with Claude or your AI solution on figuring out exactly what that company's dealing with.

So, it's going to vary depending on your deal size. Great questions, you guys. Um, okay. So, trigger tension trust, that's your emails, that's your phone. Uh I wanted to share a little bit more data that we uh built with Gong. If you're wanting to know what types of personalization works really well, there are individualbased personalizations. Uh yes, Scott, give me just a second. I can go back to that slide. So individual-based personalization, this is doing personalization that is unique to that individual.

So something you saw them post about on LinkedIn, something about their career experience, something you heard them say in an interview. Contrary to popular belief, this works much better to someone who is a manager or an individual contributor than it does someone who is a VP or in the seauite. Why is that? these people get less outreach and the folks that are VPs in seuite they're much more connected to what's going on in the business at a high level and that's why where you see here on the bottom where it says company based personalization you want to tailor your company more towards what the account or company is focused on so Julia a director would go in there too so director plus you'll get three times the reply rate with a director VP or seuite if you do company level personalization versus individual level personalization.

These folks kind of don't give a what you know about them personally unless it's connected to what they're working on at the company. Uh industry based personalization, that's what I gave you earlier. For some of you that are doing a little bit more one to many because you sell something that's a little bit more transactional, that's where you can go in with like an industry trigger and something that's going on across a wide group of people and you can lead with that. And then you have activity based personalization.

This is kind of the lowhanging fruit. This is anything that you can find that's a previous interaction with your company. Closed lost deal. They downloaded content. All of that kind of stuff. Okay, cool. All right, Scott, you wanted to see the email. Yeah, feel free if you want take a screenshot. Yeah, you bet, Scott. No problem, dude. Um, okay, that's the gong data. We have some time for Q&A, so we got six or seven minutes. Uh, I want to make sure first, so this was the last of the three-part live series.

Everything that I've talked about and a whole lot more is sitting inside of the master class. So, I'm going to share that link again. And again, it's free, you guys. I um I don't have anything to sell you unless you uh run a uh a team, in which case you want us to customize some of the stuff and train your team. Uh but if you're a rep or or manager and you just want your team to get access to this, like it's it's free. Um yeah, you can definitely invite others to the master class. So just share that link with them.

And let me um let me share my screen and let me just walk you through what's in there. Yeah. So, these are all the modules we're going to talk about. Disqualify. There's some practical exercises and worksheets in there for that. There's messaging. We talk about offers, triggers, how to use AI, sequencing, and omni channel. I mean, there's a whole three-part series just on on uh cold calling and objection handling. There's email, which we didn't really talk about at all. Uh, you'll get access to this community here.

I think we already have like over 300 people in here. Almost 300 it looks like. Um, and the courses here. I I'm going to flip this live later today. So, you'll have access to all the modules. Uh, there's a pretty sweet workbook in here that you can log into that, you know, has a summary of all of the lessons where you can kind of fill in the blanks with some stuff and pick your ICP and all kinds of cool stuff. So, uh, make sure to check it out. Invite as many people as you can or or or as you would like, uh, folks on your team if they want access.

Like, it's free. Just share that link with them. Um, so what I want to do now is I have some time to answer some questions. So, I only see three in the Q&A. So, if you got a question, now's the time to drop it in there. Um, Colton says, "How do people deal with email spam blockers?" All right. Um, and I'm going to give you guys my email address. So, if you have a team because I've gotten a few messages from you, uh, guys, uh, email me, Jason outboundsquad.com, uh, shoot me a quick email and tell me a little bit more about what you want help with and I can I can give you all the information that you need.

Um, cool. Yeah, Jasonquad.com. Just shoot me an email if you got a team and you want some help. Uh, okay. So, how to avoid email spam blockers. This is so tricky. So the number one thing is that in the first email that you send, you want there to be very limited multimedia in the email and very little use of links, hyperlinks. So ideally your first email is completely textbased with one hyperlink in your signature to your website. You don't have an image of your logo like you aren't using all of these kind of fancy stuff for your outbound emails.

Um, the second thing is that you're not sharing a link to look at a video or a case study. You're not using any attachments, none of that kind of stuff until the second email, in which case I would only recommend using links. I wouldn't recommend attachments or anything else like that. Um, that's probably the easiest, most straightforward way to do it. Uh, the more advanced stuff is going to be making sure that your company has like a separate domain setup just for your cold emails. Um, yeah. Mark says, "What about meeting links or calendar links?" Um, they're not bad to use.

Um, my thought on calendar links is less on if you should use them and it's more on how you use them. So, most buyers in my experience are not super responsive to you just putting an email link in there to book a time because it kind of feels like you're making them do all the work. So, what I like to do, I like Calendarly. Calendarly is pretty cool because you can get it to suggest specific times and you can also give them the link to uh pick more times and then I also encourage them to just let me know if something works better for them.

So, it's a more about giving them options. Give them a link, manually suggest times, and then let them know that they can suggest times too or connect you with their EA. That's what I've seen work best. Um, Kate asked a great question about email trackers. Um, definitely turn link tracking off because it's going to register as like a newsletter type email. It might be more likely to go to updates or promotions. Uh, the second thing that I would recommend is once you start to dial in an email campaign and you're getting a moderate amount of replies, like let's say 5% or more, you can turn open tracking off too.

So once you know that people are looking at emails, open tracking is going to flag spam, too. Uh, which is kind of a newer thing in the last couple years. And most of the open tracking isn't honestly that accurate anyways. So it's being opened two or three times by their spam filters. Um, okay. So Colton, I hope that answers your question. Melissa said, "Can you briefly mention volume? What do you see on average is needed for success of what the top performers do regarding cold calling and emailing?

Maybe LinkedIn if you could provide that too." Um, yeah, the best thing to do would be to work backwards. So if you're if you know if you think um the average reply rate's around like 1 or 2%. A top performer is going to be like in the low double digits. So maybe 8 9 10 11 12% somewhere in that range. If you just work the math backwards, that's how you can determine the level of volume that's needed. If your cold call pickup rates 5% that means I need to make 20 calls in order to get a pickup. If my conversion rate's 5% of live calls into a uh booked meeting, that means I need to have 20 conversations.

And you can already kind of hear that math and you're like, "Shit, if I only have a 5% pickup rate in a 5% conversion rate, I got to make 20 calls to talk to someone and then talk to 20 people to book a meeting." Like, that's that's not going to work. Like, that math doesn't work. Um, so there's some good benchmarking type of stuff that you can do there around numbers. That's that I find really helpful. Um, so Melissa, I hope that answers your question. Teresa says, "What is the date of the next free course?" Um, I don't know if we're going to do a launch like this like that often, but I have definitely been stepping up my YouTube game.

So, um, a lot of this stuff we're just going to start putting out for free and we're going to do it like on a quarterly basis. if we're going to do something really professionally and like polished and produced like like the course that that you see on the website now. So, uh we're going to do it more often for sure. So, I hope that answers your question. Okay. John asks, "How to stand out over the noise? The ICP I'm going after is probably uh is cadence from 50 other companies." So, John, I think the offer, dude, is the best way.

What can you offer them that none of these other companies are? What blind date can you sell? What onetoone offer can you make? what one to many offer can you make and are you leveraging that reason to meet formula trigger tension trust like those are the things that are going to make your message pop. Um all right y'all that's all I got for you today. I hope the last three sessions were really valuable for you. Yeah, you bet Christine. Um I will send out I think our teams it's going to take us a bit to get all of this together with the recordings and to get them edited.

So, I think first thing Monday, we're sending an email out with the three recordings from this week. Later today here, probably in the next hour, but for sure by the end of the day, I'm opening up the course so that you'll have uh access to everything. So, make sure to sign up, get in there, and I would love for if you got value from today, I would love for you to share something on LinkedIn or share something with a colleague or your team. Like, just give them that masterclass link and I would I would love to get this uh free content in front of them.

Cool. Awesome. Thank you so much, everyone. That's all I got for you. Have a good one. See you.
