# Cold Calling: Give me 23 minutes and I'll eliminate your fear of the phones (Mini Course)

**Expert:** Jason Bay

**Rank:** 7

**Metadata Score:** 64

**Published:** 2026-04-28

**Duration:** 00:23:22

**Views:** 187

**Likes:** 9

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QaUlzVeCnt0

---

# Transcript

Cold calling doesn't work if you suck at it. Sorry, I have to be honest here. Like the data shows that cold calling is an effective tool for landing meetings, but if you are not skilled at cold calling and there's a time where every sales professional has not been skilled at cold calling, the rejection in doing this, it's a terrible way to spend your time if you are not skilled at it. But let's look at what the data says. This is 300 million cold calls analyzed by Gong and 30 minutes to President's Club.

And what you're looking at here is the difference between how the average rep performs on the phones versus how the top 25% of reps perform. Connect rate, for example. 5.4% versus 13.3%. Top reps are able to get prospects to pick up the phone more. And we talked about voicemails being a tool to do that. The other thing that we've talked about as well and and we'll continue talking about is like the workflow component and when you decide to call people. There's a bunch that goes into this. The second thing is the set rate.

That's the thing that you arguably have the most control over. So when a prospect does say hello and you engage in conversation with them the average rep books 4.6% of those live conversations into meetings versus 16.7%. So in other words, if we're looking at this so far, it takes 20 calls or so for the average rep to get a pick up and then 20 live conversations to book a meeting. And then when you look at the show rate the average rep gets just above half of the people they set to show up for a meeting.

Think about all the freaking effort you have to put in to get someone to show up to a meeting if you are average. So the big part here is that yeah, we can't control necessarily when and if people will pick up the phone, but we do control how good we are when they do decide to pick up and then how much of those people that we can get to show up, okay? So the most common problem, this is the one that we're going to address in this module, is getting shut down in the first 30 to 60 seconds. Chorus data shows that the average cold call only lasts around 80 seconds.

Spoiler alert, that's not long enough for you to book a meeting with that prospect, okay? Reps are showing up in a way that is not confident and it's making the prospect not want to talk with them. The second thing is not feeling like the activity's worth it. You might be because, "Hey, I'm not skilled at this thing." Why would I even do this? People don't pick up the phone. They don't seem excited to talk to me when they do say hello. And you're missing out on a bunch of opportunities that you could be working if you were great at this skill.

So, the solution here is we're going to sell ourselves, not our product. What do I mean by that? The way that we sell ourselves is not by talking about how great we are. The way that we sell ourselves to a sophisticated buyer is by showing them that we understand their world, that we talked to their peers, that we've worked with their peers, that we understand their problems. If we can show up in that way, people will engage with us on the phone. So, the outcome of this module, what I want you to walk away with is a simple framework that you can use to build your own talk track to secure meetings.

All right, let's do a high-level overview of the framework. There's three parts to the cold calling framework. There is an intro, a hook, and a close. So, the intro. I want you for a second to think about what is it like to be on the receiving end of a cold call? I'm a firm believer, and feel free to let me know if you disagree, that no one picks up a cold call on purpose. They thought that you were someone else. Someone else more important, by the way. Someone in their family, their school, maybe a prospect, a customer, someone they've been waiting to hear back from on their team, whatever it might be.

Okay, so they thought that you were someone else. What's really key in the intro, what we're going to talk about, is how to get an opt-in. They did not raise their hand saying, "I want you to call me." So, we're going to get an opt in. We're going to ask if they are willing to participate. And then, instead of doing a product pitch, we're going to do what we call a reverse pitch. We're going to share common problems that their peers have shared with us, and we're going to see if that resonates. So, that's our intro.

What we're going to do in the hook, after we do the reverse pitch and we find something that resonates with them, we need good questions. We call these money questions. We need good questions to ask them to engage the buyer around a common problem that they might have. Cuz that's ultimately the reason they're going to want to take the meeting. The last part of the framework that we'll dig into is the close. So, the close is really all about how do I summarize what I heard, secure time with them, and then how do I leverage what we call a triple confirmation to make sure that they show up.

We want 80 plus percent of the people that we set for a meeting to be showing up. Key point number one. So, let's dig into the first 60 seconds. These are where 90% of cold calls die. The goal here is to start the conversation. So, there's a couple things I want to talk about before we even get into what to say. One is call reluctance. So, I would be lying to you, and I've been doing this for nearly two decades, I would be lying to you if I said I didn't get nervous prior to calling an executive at a large company.

Like, I get nervous. I don't think you are human if you if this type of activity doesn't make you a little bit nervous, okay? So, we have to manage some of the things around call reluctance to help us show up better in that conversation. So, there's a couple things. One, like physical thing that you can think about. So, if we think about like things that are controlling like your body and like the cortisol that might be going through your body and just like your nervous system, box breathing. It's a super simple thing.

Navy SEALs talk about this a lot. It's 4 seconds in, I hold for 4 seconds, 4 seconds out. One of the reps I used to work with, what he would do is when the phone was ringing, hear it dialing, he would just make sure to take a deep breath. I don't know about you, I've started many cold calls short of breath. So, we want to get some oxygen to our brain. I personally find that standing up and pacing around my energy is much better when I'm making calls standing up versus sitting down and hunched over like this.

I want to get the energy out of the body. Um I used to have a thing that I would do, too, back when I was working in an office where I would go take a lap outside around the office first, and then come back to my desk, and I feel like, okay, blood's flowing, I got a little bit of sunshine, like, I'm good to go. Let's go, right? So, mindset. Talk about some of the physical stuff, some of the mindset stuff. God, we could do a whole hour just talking about mindset, but I think the TLDR here is manage your self-talk.

If you're making these calls and you're saying things like, uh I don't know, I think they already have a solution. Or you look at the person's LinkedIn profile, and you're thinking to yourself, God, that person doesn't look very friendly. Or why would this person want to engage with me? They're they're 20 years older than me. Right? They have all this experience. Why could they possibly want to talk to me? Um we need to reframe that. Right? Instead of focusing so much on reasons why it not might not make sense to talk to them, what if you just leaned in and just was curious?

Hey, I wonder what solution they're using. Hey, I'm wondering if they're having trouble managing these three or four HR solutions a lot like my customer Susie was having. Right? So, if you can manage that self-talk and and not try to just be like super toxic positivity about it, but just like we're curious versus making judgments, that's really, really helpful for a lot of people. The last thing I'll share here is reframing the goal. So, instead of focusing so much on the outcome, which imagine if you were trying to get into shape or just lose a little bit of weight, let's say, and you went to the gym, and you're like, yeah, my goal is to like lose 2 lb." You would be really disappointed at the end of that gym time if your goal wasn't like just focused around the activity and just going to the gym and putting in the reps.

Right? Focusing on the outcome, it's you have less control over the outcome than you do around the activity and the inputs, okay? So, what I would focus on is, "Hey, my goal is to see if they want to have a conversation." My goal is not to book a meeting when they say hello. Cuz that's going to make me desperate for their time. I'm going to want something from them. I'm going to want their approval. My goal is simply just to get a conversation started. And you know what? They may not want to talk to me, and that's okay.

That has nothing to do with me. Okay? Maybe they don't need our solution. Like, I don't need to take this personally. So, call reluctance, you need to really work on this. If you're experiencing call reluctance and it's getting in the way of you making the calls, I would try some of those things. The second thing I want to talk about related to this is tonality. For some reason, in corporate America, I find it I don't really come from corporate America. My first sales job was going door-to-door selling house painting services.

So, I was doing the contracting industry. And I when I was the marketing director working in a corporate office, it wasn't really super corporate. I noticed that most people transform into a different human when they're at the office or when they're talking to customers, and they start saying things like, "Hey, how's it going?" Like, they talk in this tonality that just does not sound like them. If their friends or family were listening, they'd be like, "Who the heck is this person?" We have to remove the up-talk, the customer service voice, being super corporate, we got to remove all of that.

You're really looking for friendly, if that's your style, and I want to smile when I talk. I don't need to be like, "Oh, yeah, like so excited." But, I should be smiling, and it should come through in my tonality. The second thing is pacing. I don't want to talk fast. In fact, what you might do is dial it down 25%. Talk at 0.75x. Talk at this speed. Hey, it's Jason with Outbound Squad. I know I probably caught you in the middle of something. Do you have a minute for me to share the reason for my call, and you can let me know if you want to hang up or not?

I want to talk at that pace. Remember, when they pick up the phone, they are doing something else. So, when you talk really fast and they can't understand you and you have to repeat yourself, you're going to get a ton of objections. So, tonality, pacing, super important. So, let's get into the tactics of what to say in the intro. The first thing you're going to open with, we call it a permission-based opener. Okay, PBO for short. Gong's got a bunch of data on this. And by the way, I've worked with reps that break all of the rules that I'm about to share with you.

And one of the best reps I ever worked with, she broke all of these rules. So, these are not hard-fast things that are like do's and don'ts. These are guidelines. This is backed by data. These are best practices. Use your own style and judgment when you're executing on this. So, openers we want to avoid. Did I catch you at a bad time? This was something that was popularized, I believe, by Aaron Ross. And it worked really well a decade ago. So many people are getting this opener that most of the time they're going to say, "Yes, it's a bad time." Okay?

So, did I catch you at a bad time? How's it going? Please, don't waste any real estate at the beginning of the call figuring out how your prospect's day is going. I would also challenge you to say that you probably don't give a how the prospect's day is going. You don't even know them. So, it's one of the most insincere ways that you could open up a phone call is by asking how someone's day is going when you don't really care how their day is going. What we're going to teach you today is two permission-based openers and then the heard the name tossed around, which was popularized by Armand Farrokh at 30MPC.

Let's talk about and give you some examples, okay? So, the first one's the classic. So, these openers are going to apply to new business. These are customers not already doing business with you. Uh hey Dave, it's Jason. I know you weren't expecting my call. Do you mind if I take a quick moment to share why I called you specifically? This is a classic permission-based opener. It's worked for many, many decades now at this point. As long as people have been making phone calls to people and cold calling, they've been using something that sounds like this.

It's the most generic type of opener that you could use. The next couple I'm a very big fan of, especially if you're calling executives. The next one's called front-load relevance. Okay? So, the key here with this one is I want to front-load the reason for my call at the front of the opener. Optional is I could even do it before I introduce myself. So, I want to mention something that will catch their attention, okay? So, I might say something like this. Uh hey Tom, I was calling about the recent launch of ABC product.

It's Jason with Outbound Squad. Do you got a minute? I promise to be brief. So, think about the provocative hook, the trigger that you found. You're going to put that as the reason for your call at the very beginning. The goal is to grab their attention. Then I'm going to introduce myself, ask for permission. Third, Armand Frogs opener. This is really good to use if you sell sled or anything that's very local in nature. So, we had a client that sells to like construction contractors. And most construction contractors work locally in their markets.

So, it could sound something like this. Uh hey Jason, uh we work with a few other house painters here in Seattle like ABC Painters. It's Dave with XYZ Construction Pros. Have you heard our name tossed around? So, I'm weaving in a ton of like social proof and I'm localizing it as well. So, I can drop a location if that's relevant. I can drop social proof, other example companies. This one works really well. Uh the next one we call uh J-base opener. This is a play off of the front-loaded relevance, but it has context plus social proof plus a short problem statement in there, too.

I find that execs need to hear this when they answer the phone, otherwise they're just really prone to hanging up. So, here's what that might sound like. Hey Katie, I was reaching out about the AEs you're hiring and the self-sourcing that they're being asked to do. It's Jason over at Outbound Squad. Sales teams at Shopify, Rippling, and Gong use us to help their AEs self-source pipeline so that they're not so reliant on marketing and SDRs. Do you got a minute to hear why I'm calling you specifically?

So, I'm going to pack my problem statement into there along with the social proof. Two more openers that I have for you that are more for existing customers. So, if you're an account manager, let's say, or an account executive really that's selling uh or cross-selling or upselling into the base, this is what you're going to want to use. So, this could sound something like this. Uh hey Claire, it's Jason over XYZ Company. I'm actually working with Ryan right now over in the Seesaw team on reducing downtime.

Do you got a quick minute to connect? So, I'm bringing in and I'm name-dropping someone else and their department. Okay? And the problem that we're working on solving. The last opener's for cross-selling. This one's pretty good. So, same kind of thing. I want to work in roles, people on their teams, social proof, any kind of relevance that I can. This one might sound like, Hey Bindu, it's Jason with XYZ Company. I'm your conversation optimization specialist and I work with Ryan on the checkout experience.

We haven't connected yet with the web team and I wanted to introduce myself. Do you got a quick minute? So, what I want you to do at this point is pick a few openers that really fit your personality and just practice them. The beauty of cold calling, if there is anything, is how predictable it is. You can almost be assured that someone's going to answer the phone on accident. They're immediately going to be skeptical. They're going to give you very little time to talk to them and the opener's going to sound almost exactly the same every single type of prospect that you call.

So, start practicing some of these openers and get really comfortable with them. The second part is the reverse pitch. So, after I do my permission-based opener in the reverse pitch, instead of you know, the prospect saying yes and me being like, "Awesome, I get to pitch my product now." Like, I'm chomping at the bit. You know, I want you to resist every urge in your body to product pitch. Instead, what we're going to do, and all of the data supports it, you've seen the data, problem-based language will convert three times more meetings than buzzwords.

So, we are not going to talk about our product. This you could also refer to this as your problem hypothesis. Okay? We're making a our best educated guess on what they might be having a challenge with. So, version one of this, I'll give you what a generic version of this might sound like. And it's going to sound like this, so you can see the framework here. Hey, I'm calling because when I speak with CFOs and finance leaders in retail, usually we see these challenges. One is around cost control and margin protection.

They want to avoid tool sprawl and unnecessary headcount to maintain margins while expanding into new products or regions. The second thing is around predictable revenue growth. They want to grow MRR, but they don't want to add complexity and they want to improve forecasting and really be confident in their numbers. I'm curious, how does that compare to your day-to-day? So, you're going to take the priority statements from your messaging matrix. That becomes your reverse pitch. Okay? So, version two of this is really specific.

I'm going to tailor the pitch based on the relevance that I found when I was doing research. I'm going to drop a trigger in there. So, this might sound like this. Hey, I'm calling you because, you know, you just launched XYZ product and Fortnet, who we worked with, was in a similar position running into these two challenges. One was around cost control and margin protection. They wanted to avoid tool sprawl as they grew new product lines, what like what you guys are doing with ABC product. And they wanted predictable revenue growth.

They wanted to to grow MRR without adding complexity, and they also wanted to make sure to reduce churn. I'm curious, how does that compare to your day-to-day? So, I've woven in the intro there. I've woven in something relevant and tailored to them, a trigger. And then I'm slightly tailoring my reverse pitch after that. Key point number two. So, the second part of the call, the hook. What we want to do here is really make sure that we ask good questions that get the prospect to lean in and open up, okay?

What we want to avoid doing is asking questions that require the prospect to admit weakness to a complete stranger. We want to make it safe by framing problems as, "Oh, I can agree that I also have this problem that my peers are experiencing versus this is a personal problem." This is called displacing the problem. Okay? So, we don't want to ask, "What is your biggest challenge?" We want to do things like, "Hey, one of the big challenges that we hear around reducing cost to serve is you put all of this work in getting customers to solve their own problems, but they end up picking up the phone anyways and calling in?

I'm curious, how does that resonate with like what you're seeing at ABC company?" You see what I did there? I talked about a problem a peer experiences, and I asked if it resonated with them. Right? So, one framework is what we call money questions. So, the framework for this is, you know, if I was so-and-so on your team, how would I do something that we know that they can't do? So, might sound like this. Hey, if I was your finance ops manager, how would I figure out which parts of your revenue stack cost the most to maintain?

Hey, if I was in charge of global expansion, how would I know which countries are compliant and which ones aren't? The next one's a spotlight question. So, this is a how do you do something I know that you can't do, right? How do you balance speed and accuracy if your finance systems don't talk to each other? How do you think about that? Or how do you strike a balance between those two things? The third one is pervasive problem. So, I'm going to share something that is very common across all of their peers, and I'm going to see if it resonates.

That might sound something like this. Hey, we're seeing it's really hard right now to find great welding talent. And the second thing is that automation is starting to take place in a lot of these manufacturing plants, but there are still a lot of like hard customized uh welding parts that are really hard to do at scale, and I'm curious, how does that compare to your experience? And last but not least, tell me a story. The last framework is really getting the prospect to open up and tell you a story.

Okay? So, you might ask something like this. Hey, I'm really curious, the last time that you needed to give leadership an updated revenue projection, how quickly was your team able to turn that around? All right, so we want the prospect to open up and share a story with us. So, what you want to do here is come up with two or three questions that align to the problems in your messaging matrix so that we can get the customer talking about problems they have. We're going to tee that up in the last part here.

Key point number three, close and secure the meeting. If the prospect is still talking to you at this point, the meeting is yours to lose, okay? So, there's a couple things we want to do really effectively. So, what we can do here to transition is to summarize and share a customer story. So, I'm just going to restate back what I heard in that call. So, uh hey Tom, so just to recap real quick, it sounds like welding talent has been pretty tough to find for you guys, and there are some parts that if you could figure out how to automate would be really helpful for you guys.

Did I miss anything? No, cool. Um this is exactly what we're helping other manufacturers like XYZ tackle. And instead of, you know, talking to you more in the middle of your day here when I'm calling you randomly, how about we impact this when I'm not cold calling you out of the blue? Cool. Do you have your calendar handy? I'm going to get the yes. Hey, the best next step is a quick call with my AE Tom who can show you how other teams are tackling this. How's tomorrow look at 2:00 p.m.? So, I want to summarize and share a customer story and then I'm going to go in for an assumptive close, ask them if they have their calendar handy, and go into booking a meeting.

Last but not least, I'm going to do a triple confirmation. This is so essential for getting the buyer to show up. One, I want to send the invite on the call live while I have them. There's nothing worse than having the wrong email address, no email address, the invite going to spam. Like, good luck. You already did the hardest part getting them to to pick up the phone and talking to them and then agreeing to meeting with you. We don't want to lose it right at the finish line. We want to get them to accept the calendar invite while we have them on the call.

And give them the reason. Um hey, while I have you, I just sent the calendar invite. Can you go ahead and accept that in the email? Sometimes that doesn't go through or get sent to spam and I want to make sure it hit your hit your calendar. Two, I'm going to restate the agenda. So, like I said, there's some hard to automate welding parts that you wanted to dig into. Tom's going to talk to you about how we're helping clients with that and also how they're approaching the welder shortage right now.

And since you guys are not meeting until next Tuesday, um I will reach out to you the day before to confirm and in the meantime, I'm going to open up a a group text between you and Tom so that you can reach out to Tom directly if anything comes up. So, what we have at this point is a complete conversational structure for how to navigate the call. Intro, hook, close. There's a worksheet below this where you can populate your own talk track. I would suggest using AI to help you do that as well. You could upload the talk track in there along with your messaging and say, "Hey, help me populate this talk track." You could create it from scratch if you want.

Either one works, but we want a strong intro, pick your PBL, craft your reverse pitch. In our hook, we want two or three great money questions. And then our close, we want to get really good at summarizing, scheduling time, and then doing the triple confirmation.
