# Tito Bohrt on building a world-class sales development org

**Expert:** Jason Bay

**Rank:** 8

**Metadata Score:** 64

**Published:** 2026-06-29

**Duration:** 00:46:24

**Views:** 141

**Likes:** 4

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uGxRzZPBzAo

---

# Transcript

So before we chop it up and get like into into the weeds on outbound and AI, all the stuff that we were talking about before we hit record, I would love for you to give some quick context on like I feel like you have such a unique vantage point um in that like if you take someone like us for example at Outbound Squad, you know, we're really doing consulting and coaching and training and we're not doing outbound on behalf of the customer. All right, so we're a layer removed. were as close as you can get without actually doing it for them.

Um, and the way that I mean you have multiple businesses, but specifically at Alty Sales, I mean like you're in this unique vantage point in that you were seeing the inside of these customers businesses, but you are also doing it right now, too. And you're doing that across a wide variety of different customers and thousands, tens of thousands of data points happening likely on a weekly basis. So, I've always really valued your input on this because it's like you're doing the thing. Um, but you want to give a little context just for those listening, what you guys do, that sort of stuff before we dig in.

>> Yeah. So, thanks for having me, Jason. Pleasure to be here. Um, I'm Tort. I'm the CEO at three companies. Two of them people know about, one people don't know about, but I run three companies. One is called Alti Sales. It's a sales development, consulting, and outsourcing company. One of them is called Caddy. It's a software solution to help STR leaders and AE leaders manage their teams better. And I run a company called ALT Ventures, which is a venture capital fund that invest in early stage companies that need help running go to market.

And we invest in them when they have hired Alti sales to help him build go to market. What is incredibly interesting about what you say is I I started for a period of time, this is 10 years ago plus, trying to do a little bit of consulting and I would get hired to write a call calling script. And Jason, I don't know how you do it >> because I hated that world. I would write a call calling script. I would give it to my customer and be like, "Here you go. This is it. This is what you got to try." And then they would come back and say, "It's not working." And I'll go and I'll be like, "What do you mean?" I'm like, "Dude, I'll give you a couple extra hours.

Let me go listen to some calls." I'm like, "The tonality was wrong. The execution was wrong. People weren't actually following anything I was telling them." Like, >> yeah, >> I promise the script works. It's just like people are not executing correctly. But I felt like I was accidentally, you know, just completely over charging the customer. I I could charge $20,000 for a cold calling script >> and I was not seeing the impact. >> So my my business is grown out of that initial frustration where I go tell the customer, here's what I'm going to do.

I have a very trusted SDR that can go execute the call calling script. And by the way, I have a good theory of what should work, but I don't think I'm gonna get the best version of the script just by spending a lot of hours, you know, sitting in my office cranking at reading your content and writing something that works. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to build a calling script. I'm going to grab my STR. I'm going to give him 500 leads. He's going to be calling for a month. We're going to hear every objection, everything that's going wrong, but he's really good at like the tone and the pace and understands the industry.

And then I'm as I get objections, I want to iterate, iterate, iterate, iterate. I'm gonna be changing the script. So the instruction to the rep was either you follow the script or the script follows you. But I need perfect match. Meaning you can experiment, you can test different things, but what starts working, we need to start editing. And eventually we got to the point in a very datadriven way where like three six months later, I had these script and it would convert from a connect to meeting at a high rate.

And high rate varies by industry. Like I've seen places where it's like 30% connected meeting and other places where it's like 7 8 n 10% is considered excellent. But um that's where I come from and I've always used a lot of data to analyze what's going on and how do we adjust like little elements to build like the perfect playbook. >> Yeah, you are in like the hardest type of business I feel like in this area. This is like because we started doing you know we were an appointment setting firm prior to getting into training and we would this is like in 2016 17 18 where you could just get away with building an email sequence and you know sending some LinkedIn messages and we booked a [ __ ] ton of meetings for people and then it just stopped working like really quickly and they were like hey let's let's teach organizations a lot of this stuff especially the cold calling right um so let's talk about cold calling because you see the [ __ ] online that's cold calling is dead.

But right now when you look at the data you're like, "Oh god, what is the future of this channel? Where is this going?" It's like the pickup rate goes down and down and down every year. Fewer people are picking up. I don't know about you. I I never pick up calls from unknown numbers. I have the AI screener on on my iPhone and god I want to say 80% of the of America is on the do not call list which I know doesn't like directly apply necessarily with like what we do in B2B but a lot of companies are not calling people on the DNC list and people are opting out of being in Zoom info.

I mean, like what what are you seeing with cold calling right now? And what do you think the future of this of this channel is and like the viability of it and how it's going to change and shift and all of that kind of stuff? >> My connection rate in 2026 is the highest since 2019. >> Wow. >> Which might surprise a lot of people. >> Yeah. The way that I got there is by a series of iterations of like how we operate as well. Um I am constantly checking on a per persona basis, per time zone basis, what's the best time to call.

That doesn't surprise a lot of people. The next thing I check is I check every state. So, if I if I'm calling into Kentucky, am I better off calling from other Kentucky numbers or from out of state? If it's out of state, what state should I call from? And then we rotate the numbers and we pass the um area code that we want to call from. So, if I'm calling into Chicago, but I'm calling to finance people, guess what? Local dial doesn't work. But if you call from a New York number, they pick up at a higher rate.

and I know what times of the day they tend to pick up. >> Yeah. >> So, there's a lot of tricks. There's also caller ID and there's a lot of ways that you can implement caller ID. There's a free call registry and whatever. Make sure your numbers don't show as spam. But, we use person plus company caller ID. It's a technology very hard to implement. Not a lot of people have it. You got to jump a lot of hoops to get it approved. Um, but when I call anybody in the United States that has AT&T, Verizon or T-Mobile or any subsidiary thereof, it's about 92% of phone numbers and about 99% of phone numbers assigned to executives at Fortune 500 companies.

Whenever I call them, it shows Tito Bort on their phone. >> Yeah, >> it it looks different. It feels different. And what that will do is get people to go look at my LinkedIn profile, find my name on their email address. Um, we're leaving voicemails at a at an interesting clip about 12% of the time. We know exactly how to leave voicemails. We also never parallel dial. Parallel dialing is killing you, especially if you're doing uh if you're going to talk to a lot of executives that are having the call screeners, you're going to get you're not going to be given the opportunity to talk to the call screener.

You're just going to skip it and therefore your connector is really low. But we power dial so one number at a time and then we talk to all those call screeners. We're getting through like at a such a high clip. It's insane. Like we don't the call screeners are not no longer stopping us. And it's because like we've the first hundred times we got into call screeners, we probably got through like three times. But then the next hundred, somebody started figuring a couple of things out and then we got out 11 times.

And then we realized if you call the same call screener a couple days apart on the first time you left a voicemail, there's other things you can say to then get through at a higher clip. We're getting through 80% of the call screeners. And the beautiful part now is like everybody who has a call screener, anybody parallel dialing them has no chance of talking to them. But because we know how to get through for those people, their phone never rings. It only rings when we call, our connect rate is up to 6%.

>> It's insane. Yeah, >> you just need to have a passion for figuring things out, Jason. That's what makes the difference between a great >> a great human and and and a great operator, right? >> Yeah. >> In any discipline. >> Yeah, dude. You just gave us a freaking master class in pickup rates. It's like the the pickup rate piece is interesting because it's like it's the very top of the funnel that you have to optimize for. It's like you cannot book a meeting with a prospect who doesn't pick up the phone.

you know, that's not that's just not going to happen. So, you're seeing six percent plus pickup rates across the board. Average that I've seen in organizations, especially ones using a dialer, I've seen as low as like 1.1% uh pickup rates. Um >> it is like and you think about the difference between that, it's like one versus six. Well, it's like six times the conversations. >> Yes. And I'm going to give you the framework because we've again we built so many STR teams and many of my customers have internal STR teams.

So like only 20% of my clients hire me to build a team from scratch. >> About 40% of my clients or 50% of my clients have somewhere between one and like six SDRs. >> So small teams that are still trying to figure it out and and they're not cracking the nut. So they hire us. And then I have, you know, the rest the other 30% have big SDR teams. But I built a framework for inspection of my SDR like SDR team. What's holding us back? And it's as follows. It says behaviors, systems, messaging, skills.

And it's a step-by-step process. I've seen so many people, Jason, that go train their SDRs on skills, and what they realize is hurting them is they're like, "We need better objection handling." You know what's actually happening? the messaging is so bad they get that they get objections that they can't handle. And I'm like, you're doing it wrong. You don't need to objection handle. You need to pre-handle the objection. You need to reposition. You need to rethink your pitch. If you change your messaging, your objections will change.

Therefore, don't spend so much time objection handling. Change the messaging. And then everybody's like, "Oh my god." And I'm like, "Wait, wait. So you you're going to go do messaging right now, right? Right. Let's go run at it." They're like, "Yeah." I'm like, "No, wrong." They're like, "What?" I'm like, "Your messaging is useless unless your systems are right. Who cares to have great messaging if your connect rates under 3%." >> Who cares to have great emails if your emails don't land in the inbox?

>> And they're like, "Oh, wow." I'm like, "Before you go work on messaging, messaging is useless unless you go fix on your systems. Get your connect rate up. Get your email deliverability rate." And they're like, "Oh my god." I'm like, "Okay, wait a second. What are you going to go It's like, I'm going to go work on my No. You know why? You can have the best systems and then you can go get the best messaging and then you can go get the best objection handling and you can still be absolutely dead in the water with zero results.

They're like, I don't understand. What do you mean? I'm like, what precedes systems behaviors? I'm like, >> yeah, >> how many of you STRs have logged like a fake call? What's your average time to reply? Like you send a sequence email, a prospect replies back. How long is it taking you to reply back to that prospect on a per rep basis? On a per sequence basis, on a per hour of the day basis, during business hours versus off business hours. Get claude start pinging it. Ask it all these questions. And you know what we see?

I have STRs from customers. They take more than 72 hours to reply back to a prospect who replied to a sequence. like automated sequence goes out, prospect replies back, blah blah blah blah blah, and the SCR replies back to the prospect, but it took him more than 72 hours. I'm like dumbfounded. I'm like, what are these people doing all day? And what the manager is saying is >> we we they work remote. I don't know. They're not in the office. They're fake dials. There's people logging calls that they're not making.

There's people who are on parallel dials. You got to make $150 a day. Guess how long it takes them? 27 minutes they made $150. >> Zero voicemails. Zero like zero anything. There's even people. Hello says the prospect and they they hang up. I'm like that's a two-cond call. I play the recording the prospect heads hello said hello and they and the SDR hung up. It's happened to me. I picked up the phone said hello and people hang up and they're like my connection is low and they blame the SDR manager.

They blame the tools. behaviors, systems, messaging, skills. You get that wrong, you're dead. >> Yeah, it's crazy. >> I love that. Let's love the framework. I want to talk to you about data here in a second, but to backtrack a bit on cold calling. Um, what's the voicemail strategy? How much of this do I give out uh for free? Um, no. Voicemail strategy actually is interesting. So, we have a couple of different types of voicemails that we leave for prospects. >> Yeah, >> you also need to understand that the voicemail strategy actually varies by persona.

Similarly to like objection handling varies by persona. And then again, I'm going to give this away for free. Have fun. Use it. Think about it this way. Imagine you call a VP of sales. They pick up the phone. Hello, this is Jack. What do you say? So, like here's what we like to say. Hey Jack, my name is Tito Bort. I'm with Ali Sales. I was just hoping to speak with you briefly today. Do you have two minutes? And more than 80% of the time, they'll agree. They'll they'll say yes. But 20% of the time or 25 30% of the time, they'll be like, "Oh man, I'm so busy.

I can't talk right now." When it's a VP of sales, here's my response. Oh, come on, Jack. You're a VP of sales. I'm I'm an STR. Give me a chance 45 seconds right now or I call you at the end of the day. What do you What do you prefer? >> Yeah. >> You know what happens? They smile just like you smiled right now. >> Yeah. You can't do that to a VP of IT though, >> right? You can't you can't. That doesn't work. >> Yeah. >> My background is psychology, right? I studied behavioral economics and decision neuroscience at Duke University under the guidance of Dan Areli.

I am one of the people that loves to reverse engineer the why behind the what in the brain. If they're rejecting me, I need to understand why. If they're not picking up my phone, I need to understand why. What would I do in their shoes? How do they think? What do they feel? And if you just put yourself in their shoes, it is like extreme empathy, you would call it. And then you'll figure out what to say. You'll figure out what what voicemail works, right? So like, should your voicemail be like, "Hey Jason, you probably have a lot of people calling you parallel dialers and they're so annoying.

I swear to God I'm calling you oneon-one because I was looking at Alban Squad. I la I I listened to your last episode. Need to share something with you about the voicemail strategy you gota be running. Give me a chance. Call me back. Email me. It doesn't matter. But I'll call you again tomorrow. I'll try you in the morning and then you have to call the next day in the morning. If the prospect feels like they're in a sequence nobody's picking up. If the prospect feels like this is an automated thing, they're not going to engage with you.

The reason I give people my time is because I feel like they have put in the time and effort to earn it. And my bar for how to earn it has changed. In 2018, you personalize an email and my feeling was, "Oh, you spend a lot of time to personalize. You've earned my time. Nowadays, you can send me the most personalized email in the world. You haven't earned [ __ ] That's probably AI." >> Yeah. It doesn't work because it doesn't prove effort. If you send me a box of chocolates, maybe you're proving that you care.

But it would be better if you send me a Real Madrid t-shirt. It would show me you care more because you know me. And like how will you show me you can if you leave me a voicemail? It depends what you say and how you say it and how you think about it. And like if I send send me an email, how quickly you send me an email and what assets you include also like can you communicate on my level that is what works in sales development today across channels but very specifically on phone as well. You think that the current model of Let me backtrack.

One of the benefits of working with like Altis Sales, let's say, is that you have these experienced STRs. >> Yep. >> You're not bringing someone in like these companies that's their first job and expecting them within two or three months to land a me uh you know at 23 years old to land a message with some uh land a meeting rather with someone in the seauite. Correct. >> How do you feel about the current like SDR model? Like what's broken? >> Is it broken? >> Um I think a lot of people are doing it wrong.

And the reason they're doing it wrong could be many. One of them is hiring s like too many young hungry STRs when the process have not been figured out. I think of building an SDR team as I think about building a revenue machine. When I think about building a revenue machine, let me bring you an example. Okay, you see these? >> Yeah. >> AirPods. Recognize them? You're using them. Look at the back of the box. It says designed by Apple in California. Assembled in Vietnam. I'm going to explain the business model of this AirPods.

How much do you think these cost to make in Vietnam right now? >> In bucks. >> Yeah, I'm I'm in agreement. It must be around there. How much do they sell it for? >> These ones I think were 250 bucks or something crazy like that. Yeah. >> Yeah. 50 to 350. The Pro are 350. The regular 250. >> Yeah. >> Profitable. >> Yeah. [laughter] >> Insanely profitable. Okay. Wait a second. I want to ask a different question. Somebody invented these. Like in California, some designer designed the perfect AirPods.

They decided on every part, on every curve, on everything. How much do you think it cost Apple to pay the salaries, the tools, taxes, benefits, insurance, and everything to go from, oh, we should release some sort of like, you know, AirPods to the product being ready? How many >> I would assume that's an eight, nine figure plus investment to build a product like that for the first that that works. >> Okay. So, that's the business model. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to invest $100 million to get the best people in the world to build a product and a system and a they need to create the manufacturing process.

How does this AirPod case get created? The charging port. How quickly does it charge? What type of battery does the case have? What type of battery do the AirPods have? We spent $100 million to build it. And once it's ready and we love it and we user test it and blah blah blah, we can produce them for 10 bucks and we can sell them for 350. You know what's the problem in the world of sales development today? Nobody >> they don't do the first part. Yeah. They don't do the first part. You know what they come and say?

They say, "Jason, these cost $10 to produce and they sell for $ 250. Here's $12. Bring me AirPods that are better than these. Build them in-house." And you're like, "Boss, the I can't do that. What do you mean? Here's $12. Bring me AirPods that are better than these." They're like, "Yeah, what if you had no AirPods? Zero. And the company doesn't exist. You're a competitor of Apple." And I'm like, "Jason, your role is to produce a competitive product to AirPods. I just need to test it. Bring me 10 10 products to test.

Here's $3,000. It's more than the AirPods cost themselves. They they cost 250. I'm going to give you 300 time 10 and 3,000. Create me 10 pairs of competitive AirPods and and prove to me that they they're better quality than Apple. Who in their right mind would think that that's even a possible idea? You need to hire the California team to build the machine and the systems and iterate and control and measure and like obsess with the quality and and get to the point where the user experience is amazing.

So, Altisales is the California team. We get hired by companies that say my AirPod manufacturing process is broken. My pipeline manufacturing process is broken. I'm going to hire a set of experts that have built manufacturing plants for AirPods, pipeline teams for tech teams, and they are going to produce the target addressable market. They're going to iterate on the messaging. They're going to iterate on the call calls on the emails and the LinkedIn and blah blah blah blah blah blah. And it's going to cost me a fortune, thousands of dollars per meeting.

But it doesn't matter. It's the upfront cost. Eventually, they're going to demonstrate that I can hire a kid out of college with a perfect script, with a perfect sequence, with a perfect email, with a perfect structure, with a perfect messaging, with a perfect management structure, one-on-one documents, training documents, PIP documents, comp structures, str handoffs, pipeline management, CRM automations, everything. And they're going to hand it off to me. And at that moment, which will take 18 months to build, at that moment I can produce meetings for a thousand bucks.

And on average, they close 15% of them into revenue. On my average deal says it's 100K. So it cost me 15K to acquire 100k customer. And at that point, I go to the moon. But to get there, I first need to put hundreds of thousands of dollars to build the machine. I'm the machine builder. I then allow them to be the machine operators. >> Yeah. So really love that analogy by the way. So it's it's really about this is not an argument over whether or not the SDR model works or or or not. It's really how are you building the machine?

How are you building the model? And it's the old predictable revenue style of like I'm just going to hire a [ __ ] ton of SDRs and we're just going to like mass volume and not really think about like the pipeline that's created the closed one revenue and we're just going to sequence the [ __ ] out of our market like that's been dying of really quick death and that's not that's not a new that's not a new thing you know and I think that a lot of these organizations are getting really slapped in the face with that in the last like three or four years where it's like oh [ __ ] now that our VC and PE firm is actually looking at the profitability of our company and we're looking at everything that our sales development department sources and we're seeing that oh we actually operate at a loss with the pipeline that they generate like I think a lot of these companies are finally waking up.

>> Yeah, it's it's nonsustainable and like there's people like Mark Rober talked about this in his SAS talk in 2017. He said, "Look under the hood." Like the only way that most SDR teams can be profitable on a SDR headcount basis right now is to say, "Oh, my SDR got like seven meetings." And those seven meetings turn to like 30k in revenue for the month. And the SDR costs like with taxes, benefits, insurance, management tools, data, like 12, 15, 18K, whatever it might be. and like they're producing 30K, they cost 12K at the cost of the account executive across all the deals that they're closing.

So, we're at 25K worth of expenses on a 30k deal. So, it works. CC payback period under 12 months, renewal rate at 103% NRR. Like, the math works. The math works. But then you look under the hood and what you realize is out of the seven meetings they got, four of them were demo requests and three of them were outbound. And everything that closed was a demo request. So then because that CFO hasn't looked under the hood and they just looked at like these big pipeline numbers, they're like, "Let's triple the team." And you know what happens?

They triple the team. The new reps are being also assigned inbound. So the previous rep goes from seven to six meetings because their inbounds are now distributed among more reps. The new reps don't ramp up as much because they don't have a proven process. The old reps that were the best are being promoted to AES or something else. So the machine completely breaks. the new reps need to rebuild the process and they're averaging two to three outbound meetings a month. There's not a good outbound STR handoff to the AEES and then it ends up turning into nothing.

And like I know companies with 20, 30, 40, 50 STRs that like you look under the hood and you're like this is a disaster of a team. Like >> this is completely unprofitable. But like nobody's paying attention to the actual metrics that are proving that this is completely broken. And the and the executive team is just like, "No, we need more pipeline. Make more dials. Let's throw a spiff for dials, auto dialers, um, who's more likely to pick up score the leads." Like, it's just all shortterm tactics.

Nobody's spending the time like Apple to build the right process that is repeatable and sustainable. What's most important, the metric that we're the most proud of is our account to meeting ratio at 17%. If you give me a 100 accounts, I will get you 17 meetings. Give me another 100, another 17 meetings. Another 100, another 17 meetings. And our STRs work about 100 50 to 100 accounts a month, right? >> Yeah. So it's really interesting. Our yield on a per month basis is going to about 8 to 12 meetings per month.

But those same accounts we're going to give them three months, six months, they say call me later or we recycle them. So like we have a really good yield. An SDR with 600 accounts in a year will produce a 100 meetings or 103 meetings. That is a valuable team because then I say if I have 6,000 accounts, I can have 10 SDRs. And if I have 60,000 accounts, I I can have a 100 SDRs being profitable. Most people are not thinking that way. They're just like more meetings, more volume. That burns the TAM and it burns the play.

>> Yeah. >> The same play you're running out of runway. >> Yeah. >> And you need to build a new play that's not as effective and not as effective. So your efficiency keeps going down while my efficiency keeps going up and stays consistent. So how is speaking of efficiency AI what are what's your take on AI and how that disrupting outbound and the SDR model and how are you leveraging AI all of that stuff because we've moved very dramatically like with all of the agents and things like that that are are available now we've moved from a prompting hey I'm a rep and it's oh cool I can have it do some account research and I prompt back and forth and have it write an email.

It's like that was just like barely skimming the surface of what we could do with all the agentic stuff that's out now. Um, but how how is how does this fit into your business model and where you see the the industry going? >> Yes, my opinion at large has not changed from the episode I did with surf and sales uh three and a half years ago about AI. >> I always said AI will not replace SDRs. The main reason for it is Jason, how many meetings have you personally taken? You're a business owner. People want to sell you stuff.

There's definitely stuff to sell to Outbound Squad. How many meetings have you personally taken over the past month, two months, three months with an AI generated outbound rep? >> It's zero. Yeah. I've never ever responded to any of that stuff. I'm kind of a hard person to get a meeting with anyways. I'm not really because we run a small business. I'm not getting the best of the best of reps reaching out to me, but I I don't think I've ever taken a meeting. >> Yeah. >> From cold outreach like ever.

>> When I talk to other people, the answer is almost always the same is zero. And >> how many of the emails that you get that you think are potentially AI generated do you read? How many do you open? I would say most of what hits my inbox gets opened. Um, because I'm curious what's in there. I'm maybe a bad person to to ask that, but as soon as I tell it's AI, I I'm not going to read the rest of the email. There's no point in reading the rest of the email. >> That is fascinating to me. I agree with that.

I think that's the human psychology. >> Yeah. >> As soon as I realize it's AI, I stop reading. If we become if if if I may ask further, why do you think your brain immediately shuts off the moment it feels like it's AI? Because you're telling me if it's a if it feels like it's a human, you might read more. What? >> Yeah. >> What makes the the feeling is just like I think it's two things. One, I'm sensitive to rejecting other people like you. I get asked by a lot of people, hey, can you give me feedback on this thing?

Or, hey, I'm going through this thing in my career. Can we hop on a call? I'd love to get your insight on it. I don't feel good about saying no to to people. So, there's a rejection piece where it's like the AI I'm not rejecting a human, right? I think the other thing though is the is a similar feeling to when you get sent a group text and someone's inviting a group of people to something and they haven't reached out to you oneon-one to see if you were you'd be interested in that. They're inviting like the group.

I never respond to [ __ ] like that. >> Yeah. >> It's like you're you're messaging the group. There's nothing about that that feels like, oh, you want to invite me. >> Yeah. >> Right. There's nothing about that that's showing that you're thinking about me. Have you heard the phrase like spend five minutes to earn five minutes? >> No, I haven't actually. >> Oh, so somebody said that. I don't remember who it is. It's some other leader. It's not my thing, but somebody said you got to spend five minutes to earn five minutes.

And and you're kind of describing that you're like, if they actually took the time of their day to reach out to me and be like, "Jason, we're doing a boat party in Miami this weekend and I know you're going to be in town. I'd love for you to come." You're much more likely to go than if you get a group test. Like, hey people, you're all in Miami. We're doing a boat party. We love for you all to come. >> Yeah. >> Why? Because they actually spend the time to focus on you. So our human psychology, this is just our regular brain, feels like if somebody has spent the time and effort, they should they're proving that they care.

The reason that you see an email and as soon as you open it, you detect it say I you delete it is because you feel like they didn't care. And to be honest, if they're sending you AI written emails, they didn't care about you. They care about their pipeline. That AI written email is selfish, not selfless. If they cared, they would have done it differently. They need to care about you. So I don't believe that AI will replace STRs because whatever the AI can do for company A, it can also do for company B.

And the moment that company A deploys it and nobody else has done this yet, it will work for a few weeks, for a few months until everybody has taken one or two meetings with that strategy. Then company B says, "Comp A is being very successful. Let's replicate." Company B launches that. I've already taken a meeting with that same email. And I get another email that now says, "Tito, I hope the uh, you know, sunny Miami weather today on April 22nd is the perfect backdrop to celebrate your success of building 92 SDR teams up to 2026 and your incredible investments." The first time I saw that, I was like, "This person has researched everything about me." Now I'm like, "Ah, >> yeah, >> screw you, right?

Go away." Like, block >> selfish. I label the person email me. I I I label that company as selfish or selfless and the selfless people I will take the call. The selfish people I won't take the call. AI by default is selfish. You're not doing the work. You're automating it. I don't believe AI will will fully automate. I'll tell you what I believe is the right strategy to make your STR team the most effective STR team in the world. You got to turn AI into enablement. I have STRs that every call they have gets analyzed by AI and it suggests next steps.

It says this person rejected you on the phone within eight seconds because they felt it was a parallel dial. Immediately send a connect request and say Jason I'm the guy who called you. Seems like I caught you at a horrible time. Huge apologies. I'm sending you a detailed email. It'll have two blue dots in the subject line. email with two blue dots pre-drafted. You get researched. It says Jason specifically reaching out to you. Your episode with Tito board was amazing. It taught me really how to use AI and how to think about the human psychology.

I want to be on your podcast >> or my CEO wants to be on your podcast. >> You know, can you do him a favor? >> Right? >> Look at his profile. Here are the articles he's wrong. Like >> enable the human to look more human. But it's very custom. That's what you need to start doing with AI. You're going to have humans with great judgment that can produce insane results by being enabled by the AI. They're objection handling everything. And the same happens to the AES. I think the revolution of AI >> will affect AE work and AE employment a lot more than SDR employment and SDR work.

>> Really? >> Oh, tremendous. >> Yeah. Yeah, >> your course has to be up 5x. All your emails, all your pings have to be completely automated. Of course, all the CRM data entry is gone. You don't need to CRM data entry anything. All your calls immediately after you take them needs to be scored. It gets run through all the company medics, spies, whatever you want to do it. All our company materials, all our competitor scorecards, all our best practices, and I get a summary. Tito, great call with XYZ company.

Here's the top three things you did really well. Top three things you got to improve. Here's your pre-drafted follow-up email. I've already moved this to stage one. Here's the calendar link associated with your SC to get the second call. Here's the information of the other three stakeholders that are included in the pre-draft in your inbox. Just review and click send. Something that would take you an hour and a half >> is now 30 seconds. So my AES calendars on average what I see is two to three hours of calls and five hours of admin.

The five hours of admin better be turned taken down to like 15 minutes. So now you can take us twice as many calls and you can improve a lot faster because the AI is reviewing the calls and what people are going to buy is I think they need to buy the outbound squad package. they can connect their MCP to all the outbound squad methodology and as my calls are getting scored I want it scored based on JSON based belief and methodology so it says here's the scorecard according to our internal company enablement team here's a scorecard accord to MedPic here's a scorecard according to like spice here's a scorecard according to spin selling here's a score according to gaps selling here's a score according to Jason Bay >> commonality of things you need to improve blah blah blah.

I've added this item to your one-on-one with your boss. >> Yeah, >> can do all that right now. You just need to spend a little bit of time to automate it. And you need a lot of rivals people to start building this. >> But yeah, my a quota it will never again be 5x 5x uh salary, 5x uh OT, right? 5x coverage. So they say, right? Like 100k base, 200k OT >> means a million dollars in Yep. >> right? Like that's the common it better be 100k 200k OT $2 million quota. >> Yeah. >> You can you can you can manage twice as many twice as many customers.

>> Why have 10 AES just have five? >> Yeah. >> And you move the headcount to the STRs because what people are lacking is pipeline and the the email reply rate is tanking and the connect rate on the phone is tanking and it requires more humans. You know how many times I'm dealing with an account executive. I'm I just renewed Zoom Info and Lead IQ and Luchia and all these tools. I'm like I work crazy hours, don't get me wrong. Two in the morning, I'm like, "Oh, I have a question about the API access in my subscription for um lead IQ.

I got to send an email. It's 2 in the morning. I don't get a response. Dude, here's what I need. I meet with an AE after the meeting. They say Tito, I'm going to send you a deal room or whatever you want to call it." It actually contains JSONbased AI. Any question you have about anything we discussed in this call or anything about L's lead IQ, you can ask it in the chat. My AI will respond to you. If it doesn't know the answer, it's going to prepare it to for me at 8:30 in the morning. Every morning, I go and I correct the AI on the answers it should have given to you.

So, at 2 in the morning, oh, will my subscription include API access? No, Tito, it won't. Ah, but I really need it. Can I have a trial of that? Trials are not available for API access. How much do I need to pay to upgrade? It's another $300 a month. Fine, I'll do it. Quote is being autocreated. >> Yeah. >> Can I sign quarterto quarter? Yes, but pricing is different. It would be blah blah blah. Okay, I'll buy for a quarter. Great. Here's the link to pay. Click pay. Done. On board. Why do I need an AE, dude?

Yeah, >> like I'm not saying I don't need an AE completely, but like 80% of the work that an AE does, like if you look at their schedule and analyze the task that they're doing and you analyze what an STR is doing, I think AES are more automatable in more areas. And now instead of having 20 AES, I can have five. I'm gonna I'm gonna fire the bottom 50% of those roles and my sales are going to skyrocket because the leads go to better AES. >> Yep. >> The role is not getting like that. >> Yeah. >> The role is not getting replaced.

But Brendan Short said this. This is not me. Everybody that says stuff that I've learned from, they deserve the credit. Brendan Short said AI will not replace SDRs. STRs using AI will replace STRs not using AI. >> Yeah, >> I think he's very correct in that. I think it is even more correct for like now companies need to some people have those GTM engineers. I I think that's thing of the past in in the mindset. You need people building on top of your MCP. Your revops team has to be like, you need an AI enablement leader that shadows people in your company, sees what the hell they're doing.

Oh, CSM, you're taking manual notes in meetings and sending follow-up emails. Are you insane? We're not going to do that anymore. Next week, workflow replaced engineering. You're writing manual tickets to see what you're going to No, that's not you. We're going to grab the call recordings. We're going to parse it. We're going to blah blah blah. We're going to get context. Wait, how many of your tasks don't have a follow-up date? How many of your tasks don't have a next step? We're going to surface those every morning.

Every 9:00 a.m. Monday, you're going to get all the tasks in your asana that don't have a next step. Why are all these tasks not have a OKR or a company priority attached to it? The AI is going to suggest what should they be attached to? If they're not attached to anything, it's going to ask you, you're going to label yes, no, yes, no, yes, no. Everybody gets dictation allowed in their thing. You don't type anymore to your AI. You talk to your AI. Your AI does the work while you sip your margarita on the beach.

That's where we're going, dude. And the future is here. This is happening in three months. >> Yeah, it's wild. We were talking before we hit record just all of the vibe coding and stuff that we've been doing. It's like I've built three internal company applications for stuff I could not figure out how to do with a sauna or a Google sheet or whatever in like three weeks, dude. Um, >> this has been great. I'm so excited. >> Yeah. The uh I built one that's like a delivery hub. So, our entire client calendar and how we manage the engagement post sale we had to do through a combination of a sauna and like we had spreadsheet that help us kind of do this and to get it customized.

I built that in about three or four hours. Um I built out an online scorecard that we're using. Um we're about to release an outbound masterclass course. I went in a studio and recorded three hours of like just our best [ __ ] And I was like, I got to create a workbook for this. I was like, why would I create a Word doc or a Google doc that people have to fill out? Why not make it an interactive workbook that's an app? So, I built that out, you know, where you can just go through and you can follow along with the course and like do the exercises inside of an app that like does stuff for you versus writing everything out on a dock, you know?

It's just like the possibilities are endless, dude. Um, dude, we got to go. We [laughter] uh I could talk to you for another hour about this [ __ ] man. Um >> can you let people know what you're up to, where to find you? Um if you're hiring, let us know. Like where where can where can people go to get more of a Tito and what you're up to? >> I'm only hiring AI agents. Um no, I'm kidding. I I always have I run a very profitable company. I am hiring people who are incredible. Um doesn't matter the role.

If you're incredible, talk to me. there's probably space for you in this company. Um, find me on LinkedIn, Tito. My name is super unique. Um, you won't have uh you won't find too many other profiles of that name. Uh, only only potentially my dad. So, that's easy. And then check out altisales.com and gtmcaddy.io. And those are the places where you can find the stuff that I'm up to. Um, I'm investing in early stage businesses always, especially only B2B. You need to have some traction. And I have a lot of like little details.

I'm I'm very careful exactly on on where I win. But um if you need any help with sales development, training internal teams or like revamping your playbooks or things like that, um I would I'm so passionate about coming with my whole AI stack and my whole like team. Like I'm I'm not four figures and I'm not five figures. I'm definitely six figures. I'm I'm a bigger investment, but I love developing leaders as well. So, I get hired by like founding SDR leaders that deploy me to helping build the playbook.

I'm there six to 18 months and then I get the hell out of there and you take all the credit for the success. So, I'm a stop gap between we need to grow and like we have an incredible machine. I teach you to build the AirPods and then I let you build them at scale and you get the profitable side of the house. I'm the sunk cost that you need to spend at the beginning to build the machinery and the process and the systems and and the mindset and all that. So, it's been a pleasure, man. Thanks for letting me kind of like tell people a bit about me.

And uh who knows if people are enjoying this a lot, share it with every friend you have. Um put it on your Slack community, send it to your boss. Uh and embrace all the things that I'm saying. Embrace the AI, embrace building the dashboards, analyze the data, understand the psychology of the people. Um, and tell Jason you want to see me again. Maybe we'll do round number two.
