# The Outbound Equation: How to Secure High Quality Meetings

**Expert:** Jason Bay

**Rank:** 9

**Metadata Score:** 64

**Published:** 2026-03-31

**Duration:** 01:01:09

**Views:** 83

**Likes:** 4

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tviRXPfN2Xk

---

# Transcript

Welcome to today's session, the outbound equation. How to secure high quality meetings. My name is Amy Gabriel, demand generation manager at Zoom Info. I'll be your host and moderator today. We are so thrilled you us to hear more about securing high quality meetings. We have a ton of ground to cover, so I'm going to get right into housekeeping. Um, if you're experiencing any technical issues, um, let us know by utilizing the Q&A on your screen or simply refresh. This is a web-based platform. Normally, that, um, knocks out most of the problems.

Uh, use the Q&A feature on the right of your screen to ask um, questions as they come up. Feel free to submit them um, while we're speaking. There's a lot of time um, a lot to cover today and we hope to have a lot of time to um, answer your questions. Uh we are recording this event. Uh you will receive an email with a link to the recording within 48 hours after we conclude. Um and the last bit of housekeeping is um that Zoom Info is a publicly traded company. This presentation may contain forward-looking statements.

Any buying decision you make should be made based only upon currently available products and offerings. So back to the task at hand here. Today we're joined by Jason Bay, founder and CEO of Outbound Squad. Jason has trained sales train teams at companies ranging from early stage startups to enterprise ors like uh Zoom and Shopify. Jason, thank you so much for joining us today. >> Super excited. I'm I'm usually uh at Outbound Squad, we are hosting these webinars and inviting y'all on and you have decided to invite me on for whatever reason.

>> No, I'm super excited though. We uh we work with uh we worked with 250 plus sales teams in the last five years. Uh so the perspective that we have is um just what does best-in-class look like across a lot of different industries, personas, business segments, SMB versus enterprise. Uh so I'm excited to bring that perspective today. >> Awesome. Thank you so much. Um and also joining us from Zoom Info today is Calvin Flax. He's a manager of sales development. Calvin leads an SDR team on the front lines of outbound every single day.

He brings a real real world perspective on what's moving the needle right now. So, thanks for joining us, Calvin. >> Happy to be here. Happy to be here. >> Awesome. So, let's start with what everyone in the audience is likely seeing out there. Why is outbound so hard right now? What sorts of things are impacting connect rates? >> Jason, you want to kick us off? >> Yeah, I can start first, Calvin, if you don't mind. Um, I think if we kind of step back and look at what the macro buying environment looks like, things are, especially if you're an account executive, you're probably feeling like things are a lot tougher than they were like two or three years ago in terms of buying.

Um, so there's a couple things that I think are really important to understand about the buyer that really frame up why outbound is so hard. Um, and for context, I've been in the outbound cold calling. Uh, my first job uh was going door to door at 18. That was in 2007. So I've been in the game for almost two decades now and it's dramatically shifted in the last two or three years. I think one buyers are inundated with options. So if you think about it, if you sell um an HR solution for example, you literally have hundreds of competitors that your buyers can go to for payroll.

Um how they manage the IT component of HR, how they manage compliance. Like every single category literally has hundreds of options and statistically 56% of buyers experience buyer remorse. So think about the last time you bought a t-shirt at the store that you didn't like and you wanted to return it or you couldn't return it. B2B buyers experience this with multiple five, six, seven figure purchases >> where they purchase software like yours and they regret it a year later because it does not actually deliver the outcome.

So they're jaded. your buyers have a lot of options and they are jaded. The second thing is economic uncertainty. So in the US, I know this is probably an international audience, but if we use the US as an example, we've had the longest bull run in American history from 2009 to 2020. We had a little blip there with CO and then it spiked again until 2022. So if you sold software during that time especially uh money was out there from VC and PE backed firms that they had to spend. Now every purchase is being highly scrutinized.

So we're seeing longer sales cycles. It's taking longer to buy. People want to get started smaller etc. And I think the last thing um anyone here that's in Gen Z I think would certainly appreciate this. Attention is just infinitely harder to capture in 2026. Um, I had a Tik Tok account for like two days as an experiment a couple years ago and after using it, I could not stand to watch a 5-minute video on YouTube. Like the attention span is just so short. Like people get so many emails and calls and LinkedIn messages and texts.

Like we're just so inundated with messaging. So all of that has led to an average reply rate to an email of around 1%. a success rate on a cold call of around four and a half percent. So, it's it's very very hard. That's my long- winded wind up, y'all, on on why outbound is so tough right now and what we're seeing in the marketplace. >> Calvin, what's your take? Yeah. And I think like as being on the front lines of this stuff like day in and day out, Jason gave us a lot of really set the stage for how difficult what we do is.

But I will say like it tough luck. Like that's the world we're in. And so there are strategies to getting connects right now. There are strategies to booking meetings and having conversations and having people buy. Like the show must go on in terms of in terms of like the macro micro economic state of everything and the meetings and pipeline that we need to build. >> Okay, cool. Um, we know it's hard to connect, but um, here's the million-dollar question for both of you. Um, are you going after the right people in the first place?

What's the smarter way to build your target when you can't afford to waste a single touch point? >> Calvin, you want to take this first? >> Yeah, I went first last time. Calvin, go ahead. >> Yeah. >> Yeah, sure. >> So, I think we've we actually play with this all the time, actually. I personally was a rep that made a ton of calls. like a ton of calls and my current director came to me and said, "Hey, imagine you're limited to the limited in the amount of outreach that you can do." >> Like don't think >> don't think about calling as many people as you can.

>> Yeah. >> Think about if we put a limit on the number of conversations you could have, who would you call then? Right. So, and that just kind of got me thinking, how many of these people that I'm calling and how many of the people that my reps are calling now like are never going to take a meeting with us. They're never going to complete. They're never going to move a sales cycle through. And so we even if we did do and I kind of brushed over this on my last answer. Even if we are calling a lot of people, doubletapping mobile numbers, leaving voicemails, calling five plus people per account, and changing up our dialer here and there, like even if we do all that stuff, if we're not connecting with good fit titles at good fit companies, then like none of that really even matters.

Right. So, building a good building a list of the right people at the right companies will never not work is is the moral of the story for me. >> Yeah. So, if I had to double click on that, I think that's a great point, Calvin. I dropped in the chat the the kind of three-part framework that we think about this. It's disqualify, offer, and commit. I'll speak to the first one. Basically, Calvin, what you said is it's so brilliant because you know in sales we talk a lot of this about disqualification or qualification.

Is this a good fit? Um, we talk about BANT, we talk about MedP, Medic, whatever it might be. We have all of these qualification frameworks to say, is this worth spending my time on this deal? And you know how we approach outbound? It's the exact freaking opposite of that. We say, "Who are all of the people in our TAM, our total addressable market, and let's reach out to every single person that we can." And the reason why that's not smart to do with outbound, I don't want to say that was smart to do in the past, but it was easier to get away with, >> the average amount of touches is, you know, it takes 12 to 15 touches across email, phone, and social to make contact with someone.

So if you're going to put that much effort in, you should be really picky about who you decide to put that level of effort into. So you need to disqualify the majority of people that you could reach out to. If I had to give you something really practical uh to do, and there's so much AI out there that can just literally do this on a daily basis for you if you want. The first exercise we do with every client is just revisiting their ideal client profile. Um we worked with a cyber security client.

uh they had eight industry industries that they were reaching out to and it would be the difference like Calvin for example like imagine if your team was reaching out to like Fortune 1000 uh manufacturers and people that make stuff and then Fortune 1000 fintech banks and things like these are two totally different of companies that sure they purchase the solution and the solution does the same thing but their use case is dramatically different. It's kind of like how marketing would use Zoom info versus how sales uses Zoom Info, even though it's the same product, right?

>> So, what we did was we said, "Hey, let's analyze in the previous six months." So, this is the the action that everyone can take here. If you're a rep, look at the previous six months of closed one and closed loss deals and look for patterns in things like employee count, um, industry, are there subniches? So instead of just saying we, you know, we work with software companies, maybe it's software companies that sell B2B fintech, right? And get like really narrow in your niche. And what you're going to find is that, and what this client found is that manufacturing and medtech, those are the two industries that responded best to their solution.

So we focused all of the outreach on them. And like literally overnight, we increased meetings by 25%. And it's just like literally overnight with that simple fix. The next layer that you can do is on the persona level. So we've talked account level and narrowing down the ICP. On the persona level, we're like, dude, there's five different roles that you're reaching out to. Um, sec ops, security operations, and cyber security are the two ones that engage in first meetings the most. We're only going to focus on them.

We're not going to reach out to the other people. And a layer under that, this is why Zoom Info is so brilliant is you should be looking at signals, triggers, new hires. So you should have this like very narrow refined list. And the idea here is that you're treating your funnel less like a funnel and more like a martini glass. The martini glass shaped pipeline is I take all of my top of funnel and I shrink it down and I just go really deep on fewer opportunities. So that's something really actionable that you can do to disqualify and say I'm going to not engage with 80% of my target total addressable market or my accounts or whatever you because they are undeserving of my outbound attention.

>> That's that's such a great point. We So I'm in I live in Vancouver, Washington. I'm out here right now in uh Walth of Massachusetts at our office here. Um, and I'm here on an assignment to address ACV per SDR. ACV per SDR, right? And it kind of got us down this rabbit hole of like where are the wins coming from? >> Yes. And so I was and when I was a rep like I don't know how to say everybody was every everything worked out. I didn't really even think about that. It was just call book call book everybody bought.

It was great e start looking at the data from my team. 90% of the close one revenue that we have this year or even the last seven months, five months is where our first point of contact was the vice president 90%. Like I mean that that that that like broke my brain because we certainly are not calling 90% VPs and above, directors and above. >> So why and then we literally changed that at the very end of last month and we had reps immediately. That's what made me think of it is that like immediately we saw an impact period.

People booked more meetings in the last five three to five days of last month than they booked the entirety of the month. >> Yes. It's kind of crazy like um this is what I love about like you know Copilot can help you do a lot of this stuff now. >> Oh yeah. >> Before you needed like a RevOps person that was like an expert like spreadsheet junkie to pull all of these pivot tables and like do all this crazy Hopefully I'm allowed to use profanity on here. Um, and now you can just use the tool like it's sitting right inside Zoom Info.

A lot of the CRM have this kind of stuff built in. Um, but you account executives on the call doing full cycle sales. So, so for those of you that are building pipeline and closing deals and some of you are probably even managing the the customer, like you have to do this. You only have a couple hours a day where you can do outbound. You have to do this. And Jason, I don't want to make this like a Zoom Info conversation, but have you seen Studio at all? Like, have you seen Go from Zoom Info? >> Oh my god.

>> No. >> Imagine I mean you can insert Imagine you have the Salesforce data that you have right now. Cool. Which is visible in Zoom info which is also cool. So you can see the contact information for the people at your open opportunities. Makes perfect sense. What Go to Market Studio does is allow you to pull any field from anywhere the entirety of the internet and put that view the data through that lens as well. So imagine for an example, I was talking to a company the other day that built inground storage tanks, right?

So they wanted to be able to go out and prospect in a new business. These are companies that exist in our salesforce. They're not owned by anybody else or a customer. And then that big the big blind spot there was, do they have a tank right now? and is it a good time for that tank to be replaced? And that was the third field that we could throw in studio. So, not only could you see the accounts and who's showing what sorts of signals and everybody who works there, but we can also pull in a field for AI combing the entirety of the internet and telling us whether that business had a inground tank that was installed before 2000.

Go. And it's right there. And like the challenge then becomes how creative can you get? And that's what we're challenged right now because we're so inundated in the mindset of Zoom Info and these signals and these scoops and this intelligence >> that like we're having trouble even coming up with ways that we can go beyond that, you know? >> Yeah. >> And we think about it really well with with other people's companies. It's easy to look at a website and think, "Hey, there's a field that this company might want to see that they never dreamed of." But like, how do you do it for yourself?

I don't know. Like, it's it's it's a challenge. >> That's a That's a really interesting, right? Um it it kind of like starts to segue into like that buyer centric messaging, right? Am I not following? >> Yes, that's exactly what it is. having that be the anchor for the conversation that you want to have over the phone. >> Okay. So, >> Jason, can you tell me a little bit more about um buyer centric messaging and your approach to that? >> Yeah. So, I I'm seeing in the chat which I'm you guys in the chat are freaking hilarious by the way.

So, I'm seeing a lot of stuff in there around like um my phone calls are not breaking through. Uh no one responds to my voicemails. How do I get a VP to respond to my email? The reframe that I would make around messaging. There's there's kind of like a I hate to even say this, but there's a 100 level thing that a a lot of reps are not doing. And at Zoom Info, you guys talk about customer voice versus product voice, which I talk to a lot of our customers about. It's the idea that when someone asks you, hey, so what do you guys do?

If I was selling Outbound Squad or training services, product voice sounds like, uh, yeah, we're a training company. We've worked with some cool companies like Zoom, you know, Shopify and Ripling, and, you know, we build playbooks. We we do workshops, reps, and we, uh, you know, teach the managers how to reinforce it. That's product voice. I just told you all about what we do. >> Uh, customer voices. Um, you know what, Calvin, that's a great question. I'm not sure if you're experiencing this, but almost every VP of sales that I talk with wants their account executives to Salesforce more pipeline.

Marketing leads are starting to run dry. MQLs are super expensive right now, and they do not want them depending on the SDR team to fill all of their pipeline. How does that like resonate with you and what you're seeing in your day-to-day? That's customer voice. I'm >> I'm talking about a problem through the lens of the customer. That's table stakes, you guys. You have to do that. >> Yes. >> Okay. The 200 and 300 level of this is the second part of the framework I shared in the chat. Disqualify offer is the second part.

The offer it answers this question. What will I learn by hopping on a call with you if I decide not to purchase your products or services? I'm going to give you several examples of this. Let's let's just start with Zoom Info as an example. One of the campaigns that you guys run that's like brilliant is like you'll share a screenshot. One of you guys showed us on another another webinar, you'll share a screenshot of like specific companies looking for services or products like theirs in their in their geographic area.

That's like like that's one heck of a gift, dude. Right? That is an offer of value that's saying, "Hey, you have a problem finding people that are in market for your services. Let me show you who that is so you can see a sample of it. Let's hop on a call so I can show you the rest of them." Like that's an offer, right? Another type of offer, um, we worked with an ecom company and the ecom company because they could go on a website, they could go through the checkout process and they see stuff that wasn't working.

So they would do free c uh free cart audits. So I could reach out and say, "Hey, hey Calvin, you imagine if I was, you know, cold calling, hey Calvin, I was on your website and I noticed that when I tried to do same day delivery in my zip code, it didn't work. And the reason I'm reaching out is I know that's a really big priority for you right now at Home Depot. Do you got a minute for me to share the reason for my call? It's Jason. Like who's not going to take that call, right? I have something to like share with you right there.

Um, another type of offer and this is because you might be thinking, well, hey, I don't know if I can do that because like what I sell isn't visual on a website. Um, I don't sell data like Zoom Info does. Every single one of you can do what's called selling the blind date. So, the blind date, when you cold call someone, you are setting up a meeting either for yourself or for someone else. And you need to like hype up just like you would hype up a blind date that you're setting up for a friend, you need to hype up the person they're going to be meeting with.

>> Some of you sell a service and you've been the customer before. Like, we sell uh we have a customer that sells edtech into school districts and a lot of the reps are previous teachers. you should tell them that you're previously a teacher of a decade and you could talk about how like learning is changing in the classroom. Um, we have another client that sells an automated welding solution and what they say is, "Hey, I'm really excited to connect you with Calvin, my account executive. He's going to walk you through how we're working with companies like Caterpillar right now and helping them deal with one, the labor shortage of welders, but two, how they're automating traditionally very hard to automate welding parts.

You're going to get a ton of value from that meeting. Again, it's like that's really hard to say no to because like you're going to teach me something. Um, data shows, you know, 91% of B2B buyers feel like salespeople they meet with do not understand them or their business. 58% uh feel like the sales meetings they attend are a complete waste of time. So, you just saying, "I'd like to show you a demo of my product or walk you through my solution," is like that's not a good enough reason to meet. You need a compelling offer.

The offer is what makes the phone call, the email, makes all of that punch through the noise. So, if you're just going through the motions of like, yeah, I'm making my calls, dude, and I'm leaving voicemails and doing all of these things, you need to think about how can I use the offer to help all of that punch through. That is the thing that will get people to take a meeting with you. >> Yes. are and and this stuff you might hear something from me or something from Jason that where you're like I am so light years away from there.

I'm so light years away from this sort of stuff. But like I see it day in and day out. I brought on 13 reps last year. Grew my team from five to 15, right? Varying different folks. But what Jason is talking about there, it does work. And if you did nothing but started about did nothing but found a way to put an offer in some of your messaging, I guarantee you, you will see better results. And if you need some help doing that, do not hesitate to reach out to me on LinkedIn and we will work it out because like following these the letters of what Jason is talking about will absolutely change the game for you.

>> Yep. If I had to give some examples, uh Susan Lush in the chat says, "I sell trucks. The internet won't tell me who has trucks, let alone how many, the types. Just shows typical industry. I'm a little long in the tooth for a blind date." Lol. call me. >> Call me. >> So, the the offer I sell trucks, just think like a layer above what you sell. >> What people are going to I'm just completely guessing what you do. Maybe it's like you sell like semi-truckss, let's say, to companies doing that kind of stuff.

Like, hey, I would want to know how do the top companies like set up their like distribution paths? Um, how do they think about optimizing the routes? How do they think about hiring the best people? like you have all of these insights from the clients that you work with that you can share with your customers. This will literally work for anything that you sell. The big thing to think about is like Calvin and like think about how many sales leaders that we interact with on a basis and your team. It those sales leaders don't interact with hundreds of their peers on a yearly basis.

So we as salespeople have crazy insight into like their peers, the buyer's peers and like how others are doing things and like we have all of those best practices and like how people really get things done and what best-in-class looks like. You have to like sell that to the buyer. You have to sell that. Um Matthew asked, "What about selling to a manufacturing company?" This is kind of vague, Matthew. And I I don't know specifically like what you sell, but I just gave you an example with the automated welding solution.

Um if you sell, I don't know, some sort of product that lives on the factory floor, it's like, hey, I want to share with you how X, Y, and Z peers are increasing throughput in their manufacturing plant and we'll talk a little about how we might be able to support that if that's something that you care about. So like the blind date, you have to just really think, yeah, Kelly, is it the same if you sell professional services? Absolutely. I sell a professional service training. Every single VP I talk to wants to know how to get their AES to sell customer pipeline.

It's it's really simple. So think above your solution. Like what is it that your customer is trying to accomplish that your solution that leads with to your solution? >> Like that's the stuff that you want to talk about. Uh sorry, one more you guys. I'm ranting a little bit. I know. But I think it's like helpful to give really specific examples. Um, yeah. Gabrielle says, "We sell urban farms on rooftops as an amenity program to big real estate companies." Awesome. I want to know like what real estate companies are you working with?

And like the urban farms on the rooftops, is that a way to like increase the number of people that like sign up um and like want to be a tenant? Does that increase sales? I I don't know what it is that the urban farms like what the like why they decide to bring an urban farm in, but that's the thing that you can share with them. This is like the blind date piece. It's like every single one of you could walk away after this meeting and like think a little bit about the insight right a layer above your solution that you could talk about >> like what back to your like semi-truck example.

What is the situation that's going on at a business that owns several semi-truckss when they go get a new one? What? What? What is going on right there? What is happening? >> Did somebody crash a truck? Did somebody uh are they growing? Did they hire new drivers? >> Are they is it the exact same truck maintenance? Right. Like it just it just goes bad, right? Like airline parts, you know, they just go bad. We got to move them out of the out of the plane, you know? But like put yourself in that in that spot >> and like imagine it and then go find companies that are in that position and ask for their business.

>> Yep. >> You know, so one last point on this, the reason why this is so important is that statistically 3 to 5% of your target market is in active buying mode at any given time. meaning that they are looking for a semi-truck, right? They are looking for urban farms, whatever it might be. That means there's a whole another 95% of your market that doesn't know who you are, that's probably not actively looking for what you sell, but they definitely want to fix the problems that your solution helps with.

The way that you appeal to them is not by saying, "I'd like to do a demo with you." It's, "Do you have this problem that all of your peers have? If so, I'd like to share with you how they're solving it." And Mark asked in the chat like, "I like this idea of a give, but as an SDR, what if I bring someone into a call with a rep who's not ready to buy?" I would challenge, and I'm curious, Calvin, how you guys do this at Zoom Info? What I would challenge is, as an account executive, I've never met one.

I've never met an account executive that is so busy they cannot take a call with the right title at a company that you're that you guys really want to work with that that like doesn't already have budget aside that like wants to buy your product right now. It's called selling for a reason. you have to sell, right? But I'm curious, Calvin, how do you guys do that at Zoom Info in terms of like what's the qualification criteria that your team needs to meet in order for an AE to accept a >> a meeting?

>> Yeah, that's funny that you said that. So, I sat down with a new friend of mine last week through that I that became my friend through these webinars and we were going over just that and I shared and big shout out to the Edge Delta team. See you guys. and um we were going over we have a document we have a sheet that says hey here's the segment here are the boxes that need to be checked for that to be considered an open opportunity and I'm popping that open right now and it's stuff like timeline right is there an existing business challenge that worth solving for them do we have an economic buyer or a champion, right?

Like, is there an opportunity to close this deal within 45, 90 to 120 or 180 plus days? Where does that where does all this stuff stand? >> Is there anything that's like a little earlier in this in the uh pipeline stage prior to that? like what's what what would be the qualification criteria if I had someone if I'm an SDR on your team >> and I got someone live on the phone. What criteria do they need to meet in order for me to just set a meeting? >> Okay, so something like they need to have a sales team.

>> It's good for them to have a product that we can affect, right? Like if a company let's say I'm selling to a marketing agency that marketing agency has 250 employees at it. Can we is it possible for us to double without double their headcount? No. Simply we will not double this marketing agency's revenue without them doubling their headcount. without them doing something to their headcount because >> like they have deliverables, right? If it's a software company, we can absolutely do that. >> We can absolutely do that.

>> So everything I'm hearing from you is basically is this a person that can make stuff happen in the company? Um is the account like meet our qualification criteria in terms of like is it something our product can really overd deliver to? >> What I didn't hear in there was like oh did I establish over a cold call that they have budget for the project? Did I establish that they have a timeline for when they want to purchase it? Like no, that's not going to happen when you're prospecting. >> Yeah.

>> Right. So, I think that like for those of you on this call that are STR setting these meetings up for AES, that's where I would really challenge you to think about like the the AE should be excited to do a meeting with a qualified buyer in a good fit account. Even if they're like, "Oh my god, I'm so glad you called. I've been thinking about buying your solution." Which never happens. >> Correct. Right. Um, you gotta sell. >> I I wanted to circle back for a second. Um, Calvin was talking about uh ramping up a team.

So, that got me thinking about like strategy. Um, and like having reps practicing workflows. Um, so how do you operationalize like training your reps and how to use that data at scale? Calvin, you >> how do I operationalize training the reps? >> Yeah. To use the data that they have at their tips um at fingertips to, you know, create the outreach and >> Oh, yeah. >> start those conversations. I'd love to hear more about that. >> I mean, >> yeah, >> Calvin, real quick, could I um just frame that question for you?

like the >> what I would be really curious about and I think other people would be is like do the reps write a lot of their own email copy or is it like provided to them? Um like how much are you like supplying for them to use versus stuff they kind of figure out with the framework themselves? Like that balance I find a lot of our clients are like very tricky. Some of them completely lock down their sequences and the rep cannot customize it and then some completely like you know the far end of it.

Hope hopefully that that helps a little bit. >> We I give people the freedom to do whatever they want. If you want to go out there and do it a particular way, then do it. Especially if it's working, then do it. If it's not working, let's let's take a look. Let's take a look under the hood here. And 90% of the time, if it's their own copy, right? And if you guys are receiving emails from Zoom Info, then you understand that not all of these the vast majority of the content that we're sending out is not handwritten.

It is not customized. It is not oneoff. But if we looked at exclusively those items, right, it all has a a a theme, a framework, these things are nice and short. These things are a few lines. If you could look up, have you ever heard of Ftype emailing? I'm sure you have, Jason. Fype. >> Yeah. Just the the kind of shape of the people are only going to read the stuff really on the left, right? And the it should be shorter as the the paragraph structure should be shorter as the email progresses. >> Yes.

Because people do think they like read line by line. You know, if you send somebody a big dense paragraph, you're never gonna get it. They're never going to read that whole thing. They might read the beginning, they might read the end, they might skim something in bold, but they're like, I'm never getting that. >> So, our big email copy, like my big focus on email copy is just keeping it short. Keeping it short and then making it relevant. You should say something funny. I have had a lot of success with the email subject, caution, contents are hot.

This is not a template. And that's a pull from >> what's on top of your Starbucks cup right now. Just caution contents are hot. And so somebody could see that and think, wow, that's kind of funny. And I think there's a lot of stuff that I am handing to the reps. And over the last 12 months, I have learned more than I have ever learned and grown uh from the external folks that I'm bringing onto my team. Like >> you're intended to go inbound, outbound, account executive here. This is like towards the end the high end of my team is like towards the high end of of outbound.

And you're supposed to know how to do this. Right. And so when we hire folks that aren't haven't been doing the Zoom Info thing for two years already, like they have such fresh ideas and there's new things and there's new emails and there's new normals and it's and it's it has just been absolutely electric learning from from the new folks. >> Love it. So it sounds like there's um you guys like to give your reps a lot of autonomy. So like we're going to give you enablement around like the best practices and like I know you guys are really framework driven but you like to allow them to work framework of the best practices and just get really creative >> which which I love.

Um if if we could if it would be helpful like you mentioned the F-shaped email. >> Um we just did a big study of like 85 million cold emails and um the structure um I think that works pretty well is like you know first line is like uh something relevant about them. The reason that you're reaching out the second line should be some sort of problem that you think that they're having. The third line should be some sort of social proof or value statement. uh social proof we found, you know, dropping a similar company that you've worked with.

>> Um or if you sell something local, saying, you know, hey, we work with construction contractors here in Seattle, you know, for example, like that can increase reply rates by 40 plus percent. Just dropping an effective social proof, and then having a really good clear call to action or some sort of offer. So, it's like that's we call that framework the reply method, but it's like, dude, that's that's just like, hey, make sure there's like something in there about them at the top of the email, ideally connected to the subject line, one sentence problem statement, one sentence social proof, and how I think that we can help, and one sentence call to action.

Like, that allows you to work like within a lot of different parameters around like how to customize that the way that you want or to be creative or whatever it might be. But I would really encourage everyone here to like AI is great, but AI is only as good as the person using it and training it. So, a lot of reps that we work with, I find that are just like, "Hey, I'm going to reach out to, you know, Amy at Zoom Info. Can you write an email?" The AI doesn't know what the best practices really are around email.

You got to feed it a bunch. Like we had I can't remember who it was, Calvin, someone on the Zoom info team last year, just a freaking AI like wizard. >> He would just feed dozens of examples of like meetings he booked with the emails and they're all different. And it's like he trained the AI so well to write in his voice. And >> I just think that people are taking too many shortcuts with AI. So I love AI, dude. I am all about it. Like I'm in my perplexity every day like co-pilot, all that kind of stuff.

But you need to know and master the fundamental frameworks around what you're trying to get it to do so that you know what good looks like and so that you can coach it. >> Totally. >> So it's not going to solve your problem for you. Like if AI could do your job for you and just with little direction, you should be really worried about that because now you're really replaceable. Like we don't need you if that happens. >> 100%. 100%. Like we can't lose our critical thinking. We can't. >> Yeah. >> Like at the very least I mean 10 years ago people did everything without AI.

200 years ago people did stuff without electricity and here we are >> doing you know Lord knows what we can't we >> AI not helping thinking I will say. >> Yeah. Yeah. Um, can I make one more suggestion actually? Um, just while we're on the topic of AI, one thing that you guys can do that's like will train your AI so easily is hopefully you're using something like a Zoom info to record your sales calls. You say, "Hey, like here's the last 15 calls I did with the persona I sell to most." And you just upload that into your AI and say, "I want my stuff to like speak to the challenges that these folks talk about and their goals and to use their language." like you are like probably 30 minutes of work to find those calls and to upload it and to train it.

Like you are instantly training your AI to be like 10 times better than just asking it to generically come up with something. >> Jason, I'm so glad you brought that up. And our resource center over on the right, Zoom Info, actually put out a um sales coach recently called Henry. Uh you can find the link to that in the chat. You can load your calls up there and you know, if you have a demo call, you you can get specific with what type of call you're doing. So there's like discovery and a few other options.

So check it out. It's in the resource center on the right side of your screen. >> It is extremely cool. But be careful. He might yell at you. He he's been known to do that. He needs >> I mean is it like Henry like Henry like Henry Shack? >> Yes. >> Yes. Like like you upload your call and I made one for myself. I said I told I told an agent, hey, >> whatever you're using to make this Henry agent, make one for me, too. And then there's a version of that for cold calls and my reps can upload their calls to the cold call and I'll jam them up.

>> It's love that. >> It's absolutely beautiful. >> So cool. >> All right, great. So I I would like to know now from a leadership perspective, how do you make sure everything your outreach is working? Like how do you keep improving your teams over time and >> you know keep keep the momentum going really? Jason that one. >> So, I mean, I was actually just thinking about this. Our big thing is promotions, right? We want to be the team with all the promotions. We don't want other teams not to have any promotions.

I'm sorry, folks. That's what we want. and I ran into one of my reps and I'm just thinking back to where about 18 months ago right before this guy got promoted and I'm looking back I'm like he turned out this person turned out so great even though we've made so many strides since this person was on the team. Like you'd think that with all the changes and all the updates and how much better that we've gotten as a group, like it's hard to even imagine not doing those things. Like how did somebody possibly hit their number if they're not sending intent screenshots?

How is somebody possibly hitting their number when they're not getting many voicemail call backs? And I I haven't honestly been able to find a good answer for it. But what I do know is that there is no silver bullet in what we do. There is no thing that you will say to everyone that will always work you. It might work today. It might work tomorrow. It might not have worked yesterday. It might not work this time next year. But we have to just keep coming back to the well. Like that's the only way to do it is to constantly be improving.

To constantly be improving. And it's probably more cyclical than it is vertical. You know what I mean? Like it's probably more round like this. Hey, every two years it's not standardized, but it's like, hey, right now we're talking about ACV per SDR. This isn't the first time we talked about it and it certainly will not be the last and we will not get to the bottom of it, but >> it's it's something that we have for right now. So, just always trying to push push the needle, push the ground, do something better, do something more.

That's what that's what keeps people fresh. >> Yeah, relentless optimization, I think, is is really big. >> Um, I dropped a framework into the chat. Teach, practice, inspect, coach. It's a great framework for frontline leaders. I think where we tend to stop oftentimes is the teaching. We say, "Hey, go look at this info webinar with Calvin and Jason and Amy. They talked about the outbound equation. Go check it out." And it's like that's the extent of the development. Um, teaching. I mean, I think the stat is something like 70 plus% Gartner put out a stat.

uh reps forget 70% of what they learn in like the first day of learning it. You just can't possibly retain all of the stuff that you learn, right? So, it's like the ongoing reinforcement, no different than practicing in any other sport that makes things stick. So, when we teach things, we have to facilitate practice. That's like AI makes this so easy now. Like, there's just no excuse for not practicing. Um, you as a frontline leader should facilitate practice. If a rep is really struggling with their cold call opener, I would assume, Calvin, you probably jam with them in the office and say, "Dude, let's for 10 minutes, we're just going to do the opener.

Do it a bunch of times. Come on, let's go." You know, um, you got to facilitate the practice. >> I have a great great drill for that actually. If you're having a hard time on the openers or it's sounding like too rehearsed or you're not excited or it's kind of robotic, I replace the name of your company with something that you absolutely love >> that will make you smile and it won't be boring. >> Hey, this is Calvin calling from skateboarding. How are you? >> Yeah, >> if you if if your opener sounds like that.

Hey, this is Calvin calling from fishing. How are you? Like you can't say that thing that you love without putting a smile on your face. And that is like very palpable on the phone. >> Yeah. >> So if you're ever having >> just replace it. >> If you're ever Yeah. Replace that word and then go back and forth. Hey, Calvin from Zoom Info. Calvin from Starbucks. Calvin from Zoom Info. Calvin from Starbucks. >> Like go back and forth and eventually you can say it with a smile on. >> I love that. So practice.

It's so important. Like practicing You know, a lot of I know there's like a lot of stats out there on like, you know, what percentage of communication is your body language versus your voice and your tonality and like the words that you say. Well, hey, when you're cold calling, there's body language, okay? >> There's no body language. So, people are just focused on your tonality and the words that you're saying. And the tonality and your enthusiasm, that's like so much more than the words that you say.

If if you're just like calling people and I'm like, I don't know what the heck Calvin ate for breakfast this morning, but I want to figure out what it is so I can get some of it. Like that enthusiasm is just contagious, right? Um, so the third part of the framework is inspect. I think oftentimes what we forget to do as frontline managers as we teach and we practice and we say, "Hey team, go get it." And we don't listen to the calls. We don't write shotgun with them. We don't look at the emails that they're sending.

Like you should be spending a a huge chunk of your time as a frontline leader coaching. That should be the majority of your job. You have to inspect. Um I'm a really big fan of trust but verify. I'm going to trust that you're doing the things that we talk about. I'm going to verify it. Everyone needs accountability, including myself and any other leader, right? Um lastly, coach reps are going to love you so much more if in your one-on- ones and your team meetings, you are bringing insights into those meetings.

Hey guys, I just listened to a call. Amy did this thing I thought that was really good. I I would love for the rest of you to listen to that so maybe you could try it versus uh hey so you didn't hit your activity target last week. Um when are you going to make your calls? Um hey it's Wednesday. Uh you haven't made all your calls yet. Like what's going on? It's like there needs to be that part of the accountability. Don't get me wrong, but you also need to like as a frontline leader actually add value.

Like treat your reps like they're customers of yours. Like that's a really good thought exercise actually is that if a rep could fire you as their manager, how would you operate differently with that rep on a weekly basis? What would you do differently if they could fire you? >> And I think that you would try to be more enjoyable to work with. The same thing that you talked about Calvin with like the voice tonality and like being excited. Uh there's a lot to as a frontline manager being really excited about the development of the reps and you guys just do such a great job with Zoom Info like the promotion path.

You know, it's like that's the thing we're hyping up is like what's the next thing thing for you now? Let's reverse engineer that from a skill standpoint. What skills do you need to master in this role in order to get to the next step? I'm here to help you. I've been there before. >> Yes. you know, >> like we're working right now on like I did the job, like I said, I was making a lot of calls, 300 calls a day, 200 calls a day, whatever it was. And I was looking at it like digging ditches because I had certainly painted more houses and washed more dishes than I had ever done cold calls, right?

>> Yep. >> And and I thought that that was a noble effort to do that. And like for whatever reason it worked for me because I've done a lot worse jobs than this one and here I am. So I had to break myself of that. I'm really not running a team of ditch diggers. I'm running a team of like fully formed grown adults that are intelligent beings and that's where the solution to our problems is. It's not in digging a cleaner, quicker, deeper ditch. It's in the minds of the people and feeding that like feeding that like everybody's seen a deal close.

Everybody's seen a meeting get booked. We're not reinventing the wheel on that front. We're trying to smooth the rough edges of this wheel so it goes fairly smooth down the road. And that happens here. that happens here. Not cracking the whip. >> Yeah. >> Like ideally, >> it's Yeah. >> It's like the obsession around the mastery of the craft. Like if you're really a sales professional, the cold call is the breeding ground for like all of the skill that you need to be a great seller. >> It's the rejection.

It's being able to um you know have someone answer a call and be really grumpy as soon as they figure out it's a cold call and then by the end of that call they're really excited to meet with you. Like that is a freaking art in a science right there. You know what I mean? Um but these are all of the skills and if you master cold outreach and especially cold calling, you're bulletproofing your career. Like there's there's nothing you cannot do if you can build pipeline. This is literally the number one problem every sales has is building pipeline.

They have a ton of reps in seat that can't for the life of them book a meeting with inside inside of their accounts. That's the skill to master. Like that's the opportunity. That's that's what I love about sales every single day. Unlike a sport, I used to play basketball in high school. We had two games a week. In sales, you have games going every hour. You know what I mean? Like this call doesn't go well. The next one could go better. You can like immediate the feedback loop is just so fast, >> which I love.

>> You never really lose. You never really lose in sales. >> You never really lose in sales. You can lose a basketball game. You can miss a shot. You can hit a bad shot on a golf course. you will not you you and on my team my team that I have and then also the team that I'm on of the managers like we are so compitive we are so competitive and we all want that person we want the person next to us just to go absolutely bananas and if they win we paid if you try your hardest and you are getting competitive with somebody across the office or right next to you or you challenge yourself like as long as you set the right goal.

Second pays pretty well. So like we we like there's never a reason not to continue to keep working hard in this game. In this game there's it's especially when it comes to booking meetings, right? Like driving revenue is one thing. go out there, close the deals. If you're an SDR, there's there's a screen between you and the revenue. At least that's how it feels. And like trying to get through that screen is like that's what we're all here trying to do. >> Cool. Let me um recap what we've talked about today because we're nearing the end here.

Um, so I've heard um the complete outbound equation includes providing a make creating an offer that makes it easy to say yes, targeting with your martini glass kind of approach there that you touched upon. Um, buyer centric messaging, using the right data, and having leadership or being a leader that trains and coaches. Is there anything I missed or like what what one thing would you want to share with the audience? Like what should they what's the highest impact change they could make and take away today and >> implement?

What would it be? What do you think? >> I think it's like saying no. It's the disqualification upfront is the big thing for me. >> I would say what um Jason was talking about inspect Inspect. I think if you did nothing but inspect your work work and then you also want to make more money then you will never never fail period. So that is such a a a great point there Jason. >> Sounds good. Well we've had a quite a few questions coming through. We definitely have time to take a few of these. Um I'm seeing a lot of people asking about like you know different types of metrics.

So like there was a question that came in about how many touches should you make to a prospect over a given period of time over like a 75day period. What would be your recommendation? Is it like 15 touches, outreach, call, email? >> The data is like basically it's it's uh with uh sequencing we want to be multi-channel, multi-day and multi-touch. So, uh, multi-day, 3 to four weeks is a pretty good time frame for you to just like do your outreach and then quit. Um, you might have a higher value target that you pursue longer than that.

Like there are different kind of variations, but 3 to four weeks is a great starting point. Uh, multi-touch, 12 to 15 touches, multi- channelannel, phone plus email plus social. So, six email touches, six phone calls, three social touches is a great starting point if you're starting from kind of zero right now. and you can adjust from there. Knowing when to stop reaching out to someone is just as important as knowing how many times to reach out to someone. >> What would you consider like success in a sequence?

Um is it if they like click on an email or like if you make contact? What would you qualify as working? >> Making contact and then you know the outcome that we want is booking a meeting >> qualified meeting. So, am I getting some sort of response? Am I getting a pickup on a call? And then if I I'm on a cold call, it's pickups, you know, conversations, the number of, you know, pickups that last longer than 60 seconds, let's say, and then the number that book into a meeting. And with email, it's open rate's a bit of a vanity metric now, but like reply rate of the email and the booking rate of those emails.

>> And I've seen a couple questions phrased differently come through as well here about voicemails. How I know there's like a lot of transcription now like what's your point of view on using voicemail as um another channel. Are we selling in voicemail or are we not? >> I I could take this one, Jason. Voicemails are one of those things that the purpose of voicemail is to get a call back. It's kind of like the question you just asked about the sequence. What's a successful sequence? Well, it's one that results in a book meeting, you know.

So, what's a successful voicemail? Well, one that gets somebody to call you back. And there's a couple frameworks out there. Jeb Blunt is a big one. Jason, I'm sure you know. You tell him once, tell them again. Um, we I just picked one up. Then you guys are going to tell me I'm crazy. And if you're selling to sales people, sales and marketing professionals, then probably in a good spot at this, but leaving a voicemail that is anonymous, but maybe you're like a little bit unhappy, Jason, this is Calvin Flax.

Please call me back. And Jason's sitting, >> oh yeah, >> am I in trouble? >> Yeah, that's like the that's like the vague voicemail works really well. >> Yes. Yeah, that's a great one. and go with the flow. Talk to somebody at your company. Talk to anyone else out there in the world. Say, "Hey, what's your voicemail? Do you get call backs?" If it's yes, try it. If it's no, go ask somebody else. >> Um, do either of you have a point of view on like day of uh time of day or day of week that tends to work best for cold outreach?

>> Follow the data. Uh, you should be running a pickup rate report that tells you through the dialer you're calling on when the days and times are are the best. But I don't know, Calvin, what you see, but I usually see local time Monday through Friday, 8 to 10 a.m. Like the first part of the morning typically will have the highest pickup rate in the last hour of the day. Y >> but it's going to vary across persona, across region. Like pull pull the pull the stats and let that inform the the best time of day.

>> Yeah, I would check the data. You could ask if there's like I asked our CRO a couple years ago like what's the last cold call he took and somebody had heard that this gentleman goes to the gym every day at 5:00. He wakes up at 4:30. He's in the gym by 4:45, 5:15. Right? This person called him at that time, Eastern in the morning, at 5:00 in the morning and said, "Hey, James, I know you're in the gym right now. I know this is the only time that I can reach you. Here's why I called, blah, blah, blah.

Did the research, heard the board meeting, and he was like, "That changed me. That was a really serious work. That's a really serious work." So, 10,000% yes, the time of day matters. Not going to hold up here forever, but check out the hungry judge, the theory of the hungry judge problem, and that will help you not call people before they eat lunch. >> All right. Well, that we're at time. I want to thank you both for joining us today. Um, there is a survey displaying on the screen. Um, let us know how we did.

Um in the resource center there's also a um registration linked uh for when Jason joins us next. Uh we have a session coming up on the 2nd of April. We'll be talking about cold call conversions. So we hope to see you all there. Thanks again Calvin Jason for joining us. Thank you everyone out there. Um I learned a lot. Thank you so much.
