# How to Cold Call for Higher Connect Rates, Better Conversations, and Meetings That Actually Show Up

**Expert:** Jason Bay

**Rank:** 11

**Metadata Score:** 60

**Published:** 2026-02-24

**Duration:** 00:53:13

**Views:** 167

**Likes:** 3

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yLK4x_vQRDg

---

# Transcript

Jason, there is always debate whether call calling is dead. >> Yeah. >> What does your data uh from working with businesses and companies like RIP, Shopify, and Zoom tell us about calling effectiveness in 2025? >> Yeah, I I would say overall it's less effective than it was two years ago even. >> It's much harder. Um, and I think that when things start to get really hard, when you don't have the soft skills and the and the sort of minimum bar of skills to make it work, a lot of organizations aren't enabling around it properly.

So, there's a lot of people that aren't able to book the meetings that they need. And it's for a lot of different reasons. But if I were to give you some stats to kind of talk about it, what's pretty interesting is uh when we think about connect rates, you know, the average connect rates about 5.4% and it depends on industry, right? But this is according to Gong data gong in 30 minutes to President's Club. Yet you'll see reps and organizations that have like a 13 plus% or 15 plus% connect rate. >> Yeah.

What you can't get away with anymore is like, dude, cell phone data and good accurate mobile data, verifying the phone numbers, making sure your dialer isn't showing up as spam, like all of that stuff is like infinitely more important because so many fewer people pick up the phone. So, it can feel a lot like, hey, people don't pick up their phone these days. The pickup rates are going down. And that's absolutely true, but in order to make it work, you have to be like in the top 10 or 20 percentile to make it work.

Um the average set rate for meetings is about 4.6%. And again the above average teams are going to have somewhere around 16 17 18%. I've worked with an organization uh we help them go from like 22 to 35%. You know uh success rate on a connected call to a qualified meeting. So it can be done but to get an entire org to convert at 15 20 25 plus percent like that requires a lot of enablement. It requires a lot of training. It requires frontline leaders that really know what they're doing. And most organizations this sort of hit them by surprise a year or two ago when it seemed like people stop responding to emails and calls and all of that kind of stuff.

So is cold calling dead? No, it's it's not dead. It's it's far from that. But it's certainly as a whole less effective. Like I'd be lying to you if I didn't say it was less effective than it was. It's infinitely harder. But there are still teams like Ripling. They're very public about this. I mean half of their pipeline comes from outbound cold calling. So you just got to be smarter about it. >> Yeah. And yeah, I agree with you on that. Um also just a stat about what you're saying about the success rate.

Um I think it's uh I don't know a lot of reps or companies achieving this success rate. We're going to unpack that today. But uh I think uh yeah 30 20 plus% 30% it's really like really like um top top tier for for cold calls. If we go back to calling uh spec sorry connect rate specifically um I know some companies for example calling uh cyber security for cyber security products and they have like 1% to 2% connect rate which is low but that's the average for cyber security and then where you have like companies like uh owner uh they call restaurant owners and they have like 16% connect rate with decision makers.

So obviously like you said depends on the industry but for me like you said I really think uh calling it's you have um enablement what you say on the phone but also the the upside the operation side of call cing having the right phone number and stuff like that really make alo your team successful. >> Yeah. Yeah. I I really think I I don't know what the future of cold calling is in enterprise calling cell phone numbers. I I think when you're in the case of owner the SMB, you know, Ripling is a lot of SMB as well.

I think calling into a business or you're calling into a corporate line, there's going to be a substantially higher pickup rate when you do that. When you're not calling direct cell phones, I don't know what that's going to look like. If you had to say 5 years, what's it going to look like calling seuite executives on their cell phones? I just see that diminishing more and more over time. That's going to be a harder and harder and harder and harder thing to do. Um, I really see the phone being a tool to help other things.

So, for example, um, a couple weeks ago, we just did a big event in Austin, Texas, where for a week we hosted a sales, uh, executive dinner. Uh, we did like a Iron Chef style event for 25 sales execs. We had a couple hundred people sign up for a rep networking event. Um, I think doing in-person stuff and having an offer, like that's the thing I feel that needs to be upgraded with outbound right now is you got to really think about we've done the volume thing. >> Yeah, >> we've done that for the last decade with all of the sales engagement platforms.

We've overwhelmed people with volume to get their attention. The next thing we need to start thinking about now is the offer. What are we giving them in return for their time? And a demo of your product is just not enough. Um, I have a client that sells ecom and the thing that they do is, you know, they they conduct a site audit before reaching out to someone and they have tools on the back end through AI and their marketing team that like does the site audits across all of their accounts for them and shows them the load time on the website, right?

They spend a minute going through the checkout process, right? So, they're experiencing the brand like they have something to bring to that conversation to share with a buyer that is valuable. Another client of mine, if you're thinking, hey, I sell B2B and you know, I can't experience the brand. Another client of mine, you know, mystery shopped several hundred companies in a category and they would call them and share some of the findings from the mystery shop, right? So, there's all kinds of things that you can do to like really think about what's the value that I could share with them in that first meeting.

No different than you wouldn't send someone to a landing page unless you're famous. No one's going to sign up on a landing page and give you their name and phone number and email unless they're going to get something valuable in return. So this same concept applies in marketing. When someone goes to a landing page, they need to get a high quality piece of content in return. They need to get your podcast, right? People are willing to pay a subscription for your podcast because it's so valuable. >> Now, I don't think that many of the buyers that reps are landing meetings with would pay any amount of money for that meeting.

Like no money. I don't even think they would give5 or $10 if they I I think they that would be a barrier for them actually. There's just so little that is being shared with them and that so so rethinking the offer is pretty big and and the phone is a tool to do that. You can only have such a great talk track and all of that kind of stuff. It's like what are you giving the buyer in return for their time? >> Could you focus on the ecom example you are giving? So how would you use that uh with cold coding?

So would do you use that in the opener or how do you use >> Absolutely. So the way that I think of just to kind of set this up, Elrich, the way that I think of the opener is the average cold call lasts 80 seconds according to Chorus. You're not going to book a meeting in 80 seconds. So what that means is that most cold calls fail really in the first minute and it has a lot to do with their first impression. >> Okay? So, if you believe that people don't pick up cold calls on purpose, and I'm happy to argue with anyone that does believe that, uh, people pick up these calls on accident.

They think that you're someone else. So, your first job is to immediately get their attention. One of the many ways that you can do that is through a permissionbased opener. I really like PBOS's. Um, so I'm going to inject this relevance into the permissionbased opener. So, I might say something like, "Uh," "Hey, Eric, it's Jason. Was just on your website and tried to add something to the card and it didn't work. By the way, again, it's Jason with XYZ company. Do you got a minute for me to share the reason for my call?" Or you could say, "Uh, hey Alic, it's Jason.

Was calling you because I was on a few competitor sites and noticed that your load speed was about four times longer and could be impacting conversion rates. Again, it's Jason with XYZ company. Can I take a minute to share why I called you specifically? >> There's a bunch of variations of that, but the idea here is that in that opener, I'm going to introduce myself really quickly, but I'm not going to ask how you're doing or how your day is going. And and and that can vary by region, by the way.

You might need to be a little bit more formal in AMIA, for example, with pleasantries. But I want to open right away with something that I found out about them. And this is not always going to be the case with, let's say you're doing something that's SMB that's highly transactional. You might like kind of genericize the opener a bit. And what you can do, uh, Kyle shared this in your podcast, I think, at owner is like they append data >> for the rep on like the location or neighboring stores that they or restaurants that they might work with.

And maybe I open up with something like that. >> Uh, hey Elrich, it's Jason. We're working with uh Taco Tuesdays down the street uh there in Austin. Again, it's Jason. You got a minute for me to share why I called you specifically? Like any variation of that where you're maybe localizing it and doing it even a little bit more at scale? Um that like relevance in the beginning of the opener is really really key. >> Yeah. So for honor specifically, I know they use this social proof in the opener and then um for in terms of relevancy obviously they're going after SMB.

So it's not like you can go online find like an interview of the CEO of the owner of the restaurant. So >> what they but what they use they have the website of the restaurant in front of them. Um and they know if for example they use uh Uber Eats or uh third party delivery tools uh and they know if owner could be relevant and depending on the traffic they have on the website or for example if they use Uber they can adapt their um their messaging bas on the stuff. So it's SMB but you can still find clues about what they do and how you can focus on because if they don't use about it well basically owner they need to educate them on online ordering for their versus well they're already doing it.

So it's more like um have you thought about building your own website and using uh your own website to to drive orders instead of using like a third party tool that basically cost you 30% of uh your orders. Yeah. So, if we were using that as an example, that would kind of be the next part of the call that we could work in is what I call the reverse pitch. >> Okay. >> So, it's a permission based opener. And if you're listening to this or watching this and you're thinking, well, I don't know. I don't like permission based openers.

Again, I have some data for you. This is from Gong in 30 minutes. Presence Club, 100,000 plus cold calls that they've analyzed. When you ask people, did I catch you at a bad time versus how's it going? versus using some sort of permission based opener. You can, you know, literally have two to four times the amount of success on a call by using a great permission based opener. So, it's not the only way to open your call, but it's very effective. >> The reverse pitch, >> what you have to think about >> before you before you you go you go with the reverse pitch, uh, I have data too, but from Nuks specifically, so Nuks, they they have data on the permission based opener opener specifically.

And what they found you have 53% of top reps they don't use permission based opener but they use context and then you have 41% using a permission based opener with context. Basically you have 95% using context and then you have like half permission based opener half they don't use permission based open. >> Yeah. So the context is the most important part. I would like to get my hands on that data by the way if you're able to share it. Yeah. Um, so I I think being it's cold calling is so funny to me because there's a data element to this, but there's also a soft skills art form of this that's just like just being a good conversationalist helps a lot on the phones, too.

And you you can't discount that. Um, >> so if we think about the opener, the the next part of the opener is what I call a reverse pitch. Mhm. >> So where reps makes the most common mistakes here is they start to talk a lot about their product and they start to get really solution focused. And what I want to do is the reverse of that. I want to talk about the problems that people like them are having. So uh when you do this when you use problem based language again same study from Gong you you will have a 16% success rate of booking a meeting versus a 5 and a half% success rate using product buzzwords and that sort of stuff.

Um, I don't obviously I I haven't worked with owner.com. I know what they do, but we can use them as an example just to riff off of. >> No, we we can follow up with uh your e-commerce example because you started with that and so >> yeah, how will you approach that? >> Yeah. So, the way that this might sound is um Eric, yeah, thank you for taking the call again. The reason I was reaching out to you is we're actually working with several business owners in the Seattle area and the number one thing that we're hearing right now is that they want to add an ecom component to their business, but it's just so complicated with all of the tooling, limited staff, all of that kind of stuff.

They don't really have a way to really open up their sales outside of their local region. I'm curious, is that something that you're thinking about or working on right now? >> So, I'm giving the problem. I'm speaking in customer voice. I'm not saying Eric uh at XYZ company we help business owners like you through uh ecom whatever suite product platform thing do this thing it's no don't do any of that what you want to say is the top two things that you hear every one of their customers talking about I I'll give one more example this is for a different solution for contact centers >> before you you move to the other example so could you share a bit more context about what this specific problem because just like to understand because I know I'm not familiar with the e-commerce business space.

So could you give more details about that? >> Yeah. So if you're a business owner and you're running a small business and let's say that you're uh running, I don't know, you sell athletic apparel, >> right? You have to compete against all of these other bigname brands, Northace, Columbia, whatever those brands are in America and across the world, right? So, in order to compete with them, if you if you just have a brickandmortar presence, you're losing out on all of the online sales that you could get, but you're also not adding all of these modern ways that people like to buy and interact with brands.

>> For example, if I can't buy something online and then pick up in store or return in store, if your competitor does that, I'm just going to buy from them instead. That's how much of like a red ocean it is right now with like retail and ecom. So the business owners are thinking about how do I stay ahead and have this technology but I don't have people in house that are the equivalent of a Salesforce admin, >> right? Or a RevOps team. I don't have that as a small business. >> Okay. Okay. >> So it's how do they compete?

That's really the big thing. Um, the next example I'll give you just because it's more of like an enterprise B2B example that I think will be relevant to a lot of people is I have a customer that sells a contact center solution. Like one of their customers is Target, for example. Um, the irony is that these support centers, they have phone numbers on their website, but they don't want people to call in because when you call in and I have to talk to you, that's really expensive. If I could talk to you through chat, even better, if I can do it through AI, >> or I can just have you answer your own question through an FAQ page, that's cheap.

That's what I want to do. >> So, if I was calling a contact center leader, it might sound something like, you know, hey, Eric, it's Jason. Uh, was on the FAQ page and I noticed that you're pushing customers a lot to self-s serve on the website right now. Uh, by the way, it's Jason again with XYZ company. You got a minute for me to share why I called you specifically? >> Person will say yes. Yep. >> Um, awesome. Like I said, I was on the FAQ page and in speaking with a lot of contact center leaders at companies like your targets and Nordstrom's of the world, one thing that they're sharing with us is that they want to reduce the cost to serve, but those FAQ pages and the chat bots and all of that stuff for whatever reason is actually creating more frustration with customers and they end up calling in anyways and they're not able to identify the reasons why they call in.

I'm curious, how does that resonate with you and and what you're seeing at ABC company? Now, I could punch that up even more if it's enterprise and if I did research using AI, let's say through their 10Ks or 10 Q's, I could say, "Hey, I was calling cuz I noticed one of the initiatives was um to increase response time and increase brand loyalty with your customers >> and I saw this thing going on." And so I could punch it up even more, but that's kind of the general approach of do some sort of relevance uh permissionbased opener.

I like the PBOS's and then I'm going to do a reverse pitch where I'm going to speak through the language of the customer. And often times if you nail that that language right there, I've immediately disarmed the prospect cuz they're like, "Oh you know, this person talks to people like me." And then naturally the next question you're going to get is, "Well, what do you do now? Now I'm in the driver's seat. They've asked me what I do versus me having to pitch up. >> Yeah. And what I like about that is you are it's hard to say I'm not interested because you're focusing on challenges or problems them they're currently facing.

So >> and also you have and on top of that you you've done some research. It's not like just you you say one problem but it's you've done your research and then you leverage that in >> Yeah. >> in the first 60 seconds of the call. >> Yeah. And you have to do that especially if it's enterprise or strategic type of sales. You're going to have to come in with something unique to that individual or that company >> also. Um and now how do you approach color coding when for example uh we are talking about chify earlier or ripping.

How do you approach when you have a well-known brand versus some a brand that no one knows on the phone? >> Yeah. So, we definitely cannot discount that when you're calling from a brand like Shopify or Rippling, for example. Like, it helps to have that brand notoriety. It absolutely does. You cannot discount that. Um, what you need to be conscious of when you call from a brand like that is people will put you into a bucket. >> Yes. >> So, I dealt with this with I won't mention the company name, but they sell a video communication solution and when they would call people, people would say, "We already have we're already using your solution." Right?

So you need to like anticipate objections. >> Yes. >> So you have to build that into your opener. So like if I was calling for that video communications company, I might say, "Hey, it's Jason from XYZ company. Uh I know you're already set up with our video solution. A lot of our customers are having challenges with and then XYZ, do you have a minute for me to walk you through it?" Like you have to anticipate objections and build it into your talk track. Um, on the other hand, when you don't have any brand notoriety, uh, you have to like be super super good on talking about the problem.

>> Yep. >> You like that language that I used in the reverse pitch, you have to nail that. If you nail that, people don't give a what the company is. They really don't care. Yep. >> If you show them that, hey, I'm a credible person and I speak with people. Like, that's everything. How do you get to that level? There's a couple different ways. If you're an SDR, uh, you need to be listening into sales calls. If they don't record it, you need to write shotgun with some of your reps. Like, I literally want you to word for word take the words that the customers are using.

Like, you're going to see prominent patterns across people in the same job titles and personas and industries. You can even with those sales calls, if they're being recorded, you can download the transcripts, upload it into chat GBT, have chat GBT help you find those patterns. There's there's just no excuse anymore not to know. Even if you were starting with nothing, you could have deep research on chat GBT probably help you find a lot of this stuff. But I want to get it in the customer's language.

If I'm an account executive, the biggest hack is to center your cold calling blocks to focus them around people that you're running sales calls with. So if I just did a sales call yesterday with a VP of contact center, I'm just literally in the opener going to say, I was talking to a VP of contact center at a retailer yesterday and they shared XYZ challenge. I'm just going to literally use the words that they shared. Is that relevant for you? It's like you're doing so many things in that moment.

Like you're sharing that you understand their problem. You're demonstrating social proof. It's relevant. It's like it's all of those things. So think about how can I as an account executive take things I'm picking up from the sales process and move it forward into the outbound motion. Use that same messaging, that same language. >> Yeah. And I love this approach because um actually if all the companies I worked at when I was still a rep that's the one thing I was doing is trying to listen not customer that were closing but more like the first demo and because on the first five minutes most of the time they say they're explaining why they're on the call and they're the problem they're facing and >> they they they're looking for a solution and you can leverage exactly the word they're using for that.

So >> 100%. Yeah, they're giving you the language. That's the coolest part is the language. You don't have to make it up. >> Um if I could make one more point on this because I think it's really important. >> Um the mindset behind this approach is very important. Um if you can't see me, I'm basically on on one side of the screen here saying this is your world where you sell stuff, your solution, all of it exists in the world. On this side on the other side is your buyer's world. When you do outbound, they didn't come to you asking for information on your product or service.

You have to meet them in their world first. You have to speak in a language that they understand. The mutual language between buyer and seller is their priorities, their problems. You bring them over this to the solution later on in the sales process. You do not do that during the outbound process. You have to meet them in their world. And that's what this is all about is the quickest way to add context to what you do is to explain it through their problems. >> That's how you add context really really quickly.

>> And if we if we think about just context specifically uh I learned something also because I used to work at Chile Pepper and Chilaping part uh that you can embed on your website. >> Mhm. And I always had like the mindset of how we were talking to marketing leaders versus other personas. And like a year ago, I was working with a company and I was selling a solution internally for this specific use case. And when I was talking to the CEO of the company, he didn't care about the same things about the marketing.

>> Yeah. But something that clicked with him specifically was when I started to talk about competitors because competitors of his company were using similar solutions and when I start talking about the his competitors that's when he started okay maybe we should think about this solution. And I say okay like that's interesting to to have like different perspective because it's not because for marketing leaders they might care about a few things but specifically this year and I think others might care more about competitor versus the marketing about the drop off on demo requests for example.

So >> yeah. So back to what I brought up originally at the beginning when like when you think about ways to get someone's attention, there was the volume. We talked about offer. The next one is relevance. And this is that's where that fits in to the relevance bucket. >> Yep. >> It's the buyer's priorities. It's their problems. It's their competitors. It's what's going on in their industry. Like if I can really contextualize things for them, that's another great way to get people's attention. >> Yes.

Uh now let's focus on if I'm a leader uh SDR leader or VP of sales and if yeah they could f only focus on improving one elements of their team's code calling what would drive the biggest results. >> Yeah I think the biggest thing is and it depends on where you're getting started from. Let's like use a common example of let's say you're trying to get your AES to do more self-sourcing and you're and they're not doing a lot of it right now. Um, what I refer to, what we call outbound squat is the weekly rhythm.

>> Okay, >> that's what you want to develop first. The weekly rhythm is the equivalent of if we're trying to make exercise a habit, let's just get to the gym on a regular basis. Let's just let's before we optimize the workout and the meal plan, let's let's just make sure we're exercising regularly. >> So, the weekly rhythm is you want to really think about habit snacking. So, instead of creating new things for you and your reps to do, let's just bolt things into the consistent uh stuff that's happening every week already.

Every sales manager is likely doing a one-on-one with their rep and they're likely doing a weekly team meeting. There's likely some sort of all hands call. There's monthly business reviews. There's QBRs. >> So, how can we insert pipe gen and outbound into the existing meetings that we already have? So, with one-on ones, for example, a part of the prep that a rep should do prior to their one-on-one is pick out the accounts that they're going to outbound into that week, and they need to bring that into the meeting.

They need to bring in and brainstorm messaging that they might use, calls with them when they're making their calls. Um, their team meetings, you need to talk about cold calling in the team meetings. Pull recordings from reps doing this stuff. Report on call activity. Create some sort of scoreboard. you have to start, it starts with just talking about it on a regular basis. So that's the big thing. Uh the second thing is from an enablement standpoint, what you can start to think about is well, what kind of coaching culture am I creating around calls?

And one simple habit is a rep brings a recorded call into every oneonone that they've already tried to self-dagnose and coach what they would have done differently in that call. >> Manager listens to that call beforehand. rep listens to that call beforehand and now there's a coaching moment every Monday meeting that is happening prior to that meeting right so creating this culting uh coaching culture rather >> super super important so if I was just getting started like those are the basics you have to start by doing at least that >> okay and uh okay so let's say that that was for the a side now let's do on the SDR side >> Mhm.

So, with BDRs, I'm going to make the assumption that they're probably already making calls >> on a weekly basis, and they may or may not be doing well. So, I think with um outbound calling, >> what you need to do is get really granular with how you provide the coaching. >> So, I like to think of the call, we've only talked about the intro of the call. >> I like to think of the intro of the call, there's the hook, and there's the close. prior to even getting on a call. There's the amount of call activity and there's the pickup rates.

Yep. >> So, what we want to think about is like if you had to look at some metrics, you want to use metrics to diagnose what each individual rep needs help with. Is it an activity problem? So, are they even making enough calls to hit the meeting target? In which case, that's a time management issue, right? How do we get them to block this off and then hold them accountable to doing it? One hack that I would recommend, I call it the midweek check-in. Most managers do a one-on-one on Monday and they just forget about the reps until the next Monday and they say, "Did you hit your targets?" And they say, "No." And then it's just like the same weekly cycle.

You should be checking on a daily basis or at the very minimum on Wednesday. You should be doing a check-in with reps that aren't halfway towards their activity target yet. >> Mhm. >> So activity, there's connect rates next. So connect rates, there's an operational component to this that is like workflow related that is entirely up to the rep. They can only work with the data that they have, but making sure, hey, are they calling cell phone numbers? Um, have we run a report in our sales engagement tool or our dialer if we're using Nooks?

And have we showed reps when the highest pickup rate opportunities are? And are we having reps make calls at those times? Are those reps calling people, opening the emails, like doing all of the basic things to drive pickup rate? So once we have pickup rate and connect rate, if that's not the issue, then we can start to look at, well, what happens in the call? How long does the call last? What's the conversion rate of those calls? So if we look and this rep has shorter average talk time, let's say per call than other reps, we know that's probably an intro based problem.

So, let's pull some recordings and let's let's see if we need to drill that permission based opener like how many uh a lot of uh organizations will measure the number of conversations. So, a pickup they'll treat as someone that says hello. A conversation will be a call that lasts longer than 60 seconds or 90 seconds, let's say. So, if you have that extra metric, you can even then dial in with that rep. Do I need to focus on the PBO and intro or do I need to focus on the questions maybe they asked during the hook?

>> Yep. So I can dial it in on an even more granular level from there. And then lastly, the last metric would be show rate of those meetings that they set. So if the show rate is below, in my opinion, 75%. 75%'s world class. 75 80% show rate to outbound set meetings over the phone. If it's below that, we need to talk about how they're confirming on the calls, the confirmation process, the emails that we send before, what the agenda of the calendar invites, the title, etc. Um, but we need to get super granular and for you BDR teams like it needs to be rep byrep coaching where you're looking at the stats on that granular of a level giving individualized coaching and feedback to the rep.

>> Yeah. So when I'm just going to summarize what you just mentioned basically for a BDR team basically it's the diagnosis for each rep and where they need to focus on. Um for calling specifically if they are really good on connect on the connect rate and number of dials. Um something you can also add is in the call disposition in your dialer specifically when the call end. For example, if you uh you talk to the prospect they hang up you can mention that in the call disposition and then in your call disposition you might have like 15 disposition.

But uh for call going specifically it's helpful in your reports because you can see pretty uh quickly where you are your calls are ending and then it's quicker so for self coaching but also for the manager also uh to to really focus on the important part of the car. >> What are uh I'm curious for you what are some of the dispositions that when you're working with clients that you have them add that they aren't already using? >> So one the first step is accuracy. So are you talking to the right person?

um if they pick up or for example if the call is disconnected right away so you know that the number is disconnected so you know that's not the right number and we do that just to measure the accuracy from the provider >> then for the data ops team it's give give them details about which data provider is good or not and then having like we are talking about um operation so you can think about using different data providers and then the ops team they can provide another phone number for for this specific prospect.

So that's one. If they pick up the phone, uh is it cell phone number? Um I know there is tools to give you this information, but sometimes you don't have it. So is it a cell phone number or the the headquarter like we are talking about earlier, copyright phone number, that's another one. Uh because if you want to focus on the right phone number, obviously direct phone numbers or cell phone numbers, that's one. >> Yeah. Um, if it's the right person, did did you uh re did you say your permission based opener?

Yes or no? Did they say yes? And because if they say no, that's a disposition. And so obviously you can measure the effectiveness of your permission based opener. Then you have another one also for um you said the hook for example for you that would be the hook and then you have the closing part. So you can see basically uh the conversion rate from each step in your coing process. >> How do you make sure that the reps are accurately inputting the extra stuff? Cuz this is like the did I do a permission based opener or not?

Like the hook like >> it seems like a lot of that I don't know if Nooks does this. Is it able to use AI to detect whether or not reps are using that sort of stuff? >> Um that's a good question. I don't know if they can do that. Uh I used so that's the only one I have experience with. So we were doing that manually. So you have uh permission to uh to p permission to pitch or depending on the the the disposition you're using and so you have like a drop down with everything. >> Uh you need to train them on that obviously.

Um >> so that's sometime it's accurate but most of the time it's accurate. I know I imagine some at some point with it will be possible to uh automate that because that will be quicker and it's more accurate. So >> yeah, that's going to be pretty cool because >> y >> anything that's like manually inputed. I've just seen so many horror stories, you know, with that. But I I love the data quality thing too where you disposition >> and then if you have the lead source attached to that contact like your RevOps team, you could probably create some sort of automation with Clay or something like that where it just automatically adds another number.

Yeah. >> Yeah. Exactly. Because uh the topic right now I'm hearing a lot about calling specifically it's uh oh yeah clay is better than zoom in for cognism for example for data quality. The problem with clay uh in general it's they have like 60% accuracy on on phone numbers and then zoom in for cognism they have like 75 plus%. >> Cognisms have 80% something like that. So I don't think clay is better than zoom in for or cognism but it's the accuracy. That's one thing you need to measure. But the other thing is what's the match rate of your prospect inside the database of those tools.

>> Yeah. >> And and unfortunately and I don't think you have like one tool to do everything. Uh it's h you need to combine a few of them. And some tools are they have great phone numbers but some some other they don't. So >> yeah. Um so we were so we were talking about the the one thing uh that they should focus on. Um we talk about the connect rates. Uh earlier you were talking about top reps and I forgot to ask you a follow for a question on that but you said top reps they have like um a booking rates between 20 to 30% uh from conversation to meeting booked.

What are they doing differently? Yeah. I I think the first thing, and again, you cannot discredit this, is the soft skills. >> Yep. >> It's the tonality. It's it's how I sound on the phone doing these. It's do you sound like you've done this hundreds or thousands of times. So, either through experience or through a lot of practice, they sound smooth. They have good tonality. They annunciate their words. They don't talk too fast. Like, they they are good conversationalists. Like, that's number one.

Uh number two is really the industry expertise around like really understanding and being able to articulate the problem. You can't speak in customer voice if you don't really understand the problem. And there's just no excuse anymore for that. I mean as a BDR you can have three months of career experience and through Chad GBT and all these AI platforms and through like you can learn everything that you need to know about the buyers problems. So articulating the problem is really big when it comes to that second part of the call the hook.

The idea here with the hook is that I don't believe that just because you say hey are do you have these problems and the person says yes that you just go in to set a meeting like you you have to dig into that a little bit more. >> And the reason for that is like no you're not going to find this like huge impactful problem in a five or seven minute call but what you are going to do is build a relationship and build rapport with this person. So you cannot discount the fact that the more time I have them on the phone, the more likely they are to book a meeting and the more likely they are to show up.

So with the hook, I need to have what we refer to as money questions. So a money question is a good problem based question that really reveals some sort of gap in what they have right now. So if I was using the contact center solution again, one thing that they know customers can't do is they're not collecting, you know, data from all of the customerf facing conversations through text, email, chat, etc., and then spoon feeding those insights to tell them where customers are getting stuck and where the friction is and why they decide to call into the contact center.

So a question I might ask and the framework here is I call it question stacking. So with these money questions, I want to stack context in front of the question before I ask it. I don't want to ask a question like, "What's your biggest challenge?" With XYZ, I want to say, "Hey, um, I'm really curious about what you mentioned with the FAQ pages." Because oftentimes what we see is that customers are not extracting info from the DMs, the text, the phone calls, etc. that they're having with their users.

And because they're unable to get that information, it's really hard to identify patterns and reasons why customers are calling in. How are you collecting information like that to prevent people from calling in? Oh, we're relying on post surveys. Interesting. Again, I hear that a lot with post customer surveys. Our stats show us that only 6% of customers even take those surveys, and it's usually the vocal minority of folks. How are you capturing feedback from the 94% of customers that don't respond to those surveys?

And it's like they're never going to give you a good answer to that. Right. >> Yeah. >> And that becomes the reason to me. >> That becomes the part where I can close. So, uh, great worldclass reps are very good at asking questions. They don't do deep discovery in the call, but they do some discovery. They expose a problem. They use that as the reason to meet. The other thing that they're really good at is getting people to show up to the meeting. So, the average show rate to a a meeting set from a cold call according to Gong, and I see something very similar, it's about 56%.

Um, the best reps are going to have somewhere between 70 to 80% show rate or higher uh to those meetings. >> So, there's a couple really simple things that you can do in the call to minimize the chance that someone doesn't show up. Uh, one of them is getting them to confirm the calendar invite on the call. And the reason why this is so important is if the person is using Gmail or Outlook, oftent times if you send them an invite, it doesn't hit their calendar unless they accept it from within their email, especially these enterprise accounts.

So, I'm just going to say, Eric, um, I just sent you an invite for 2 p.m. tomorrow. Would you mind? I want to make sure it didn't go to spam. Would you mind hitting accept on that real quick? I'll give you a couple seconds to do that. And just wait for them to accept it or make small talk with them while you're doing that. Um, I want to reconfirm the purpose of the call. So, the purpose of the call is not to get a demo of my platform. It's um, hey, again, so you mentioned that you're looking to reduce the cost to serve.

Uh, you want fewer people calling into the contact center sooner. We'll talk a little bit more about that problem and also how we're helping Nordstrom tackle a similar problem. Uh, if it makes sense, we'll talk about how and if we might be able to help. Uh, you're going to be speaking with Elrich. Uh, he's my account executive. He's actually got seven, eight years of experience working with real retail brands like yours. So, he's going to be able to talk about a lot of the patterns that we're seeing in contact centers and I sent you that invite.

Um, you should get a confirmation email maybe later today or first thing tomorrow with like a case study from our work with Nordstrom and a few other things. And that's it. So, one of the things that I want to do as an SDR especially is I want to hype up my AE. I want to talk about them and humanize them. Right? When you humanize people, people for the most part don't like to be jerks. So if if you humanize the people that they're going to be meeting with, it's harder to not show up when I feel like I'm bailing on a human versus some random person I've never met before.

Something else also why they have like a high rate for what specifically you mentioned is they have a reason to be on the call. It's not like they're curious about your solution. um because curious fact just to learn more about solution I don't think it's enough to to be on a call but uh you have some challenges that you have identified but also you talk about the AE and the expertise of this a for this specific industry I think also it's another layer uh that um they know that they will talk to someone that understand the their situation >> yep 100% I call it like you know you're you're basically setting up a blind date for your AE so if If you were setting up a blind date for your friend, you would hype up your friend.

You would talk about how awesome they are, right? And how good of a time that they're going to have. You're setting up a blind date for someone that they've never met before. So, you got to hype them up a bit. >> Um earlier you were talking about AI. Um so, how are you or the team you are currently training incorporating AI into calling? Uh it could be preparation or execution in 2025. >> Yeah. So, preparation really is where most of this is happening. Um, we call it reason to meet. So, this is going to mostly apply to enterprise or mid-market reps that have to do research prior to calling to someone.

Um, if you think about a traditional account plan, most reps when they build an account plan, it takes them hours to do. They spend hours researching, they spend all this time, Elrich, researching and like this amount of time actually speaking with people. So, it's like the complete inverse of what you want to do. Let's spend all of this time researching companies, most of which are never going to respond to me. So, you need to kind of flip that on its head. Um, our AI sort of framework that we think about is >> um, prompt, dig, summarize.

So, if I was doing account research for outbound, for example, I need a prompt that's going to really like I can show chat GPT or Gemini or whatever I'm using. Hey, here's what I sell. Here's who I sell it to. Here's the problems that they have. >> Um, here's what I want you to find. you know, scrape through their 10ks, 10 Q's, etc. Look for problems specifically related to uh demand gen lead generation, uh new products coming out, etc. Like you need to like prompt it on exactly what you wanted to look for.

The dig is the AI is not perfect. We could run chat GBT side by side with the same exact searches and we'll get different results. So, we need to dig and we need to be able to tell it, hey, this is not specific enough or this is this is related. I want you to dig into it more. this is unrelated. And then the summarize, we need to have a way that we can prompt it to just quickly summarize everything it's giving me. So, we've got it pretty dialed in with most of our customers that sell midmarket or enterprise where it'll do an enterprise account plan in like 5 minutes and spit out a a fairly good personalized email, which has got talking points that you could use in a cold call.

Um, the other really underrated thing too is uh you need to get chat GBT on your phone and be paying for the advanced version because you can role play back and forth with it and it's better than any of the roleplay solutions that I've seen in the market. There's one I won't mention the name. They keep bugging me about like partnering with them and I'm like I I called their AI robot and couldn't even book a meeting with a sales leader and I'm like you guys I'm pretty good at cold calling, okay? So, if I can't book a meeting with my own persona, like there's something off about this and it felt really robotic, uh, chat GPT is such a great tool to be able to like roleplay back and forth with out loud.

It's it's really dialed in. You can have it ramp up the difficulty. You can practice specific objections. I mean, it's it's really really good. >> Yes. Um, so what you mentioned, I'm going to start with the the prompt for the research specifically. um using the specific pain points you can solve. It's key for the PR because the AI for AI for HDP in general or the other tools they are not good enough yet to understand the pain points uh that you're solving. Um so you need to be specific about that for your research.

And then the other thing uh that's good about the prompt you mentioned is sometimes I was seeing people saying oh yeah if they have a 10K summarize the 10K and they have a a summary of the 10K but it's not specific for their product. So >> yes, you have a summary of your 10K but is it specific enough for for you to reach out to someone and document? No. So exactly what you're saying you can do that with the 10K you can do that with 10 Q also um interviews videos and stuff like that. I know right now with a I'm using perplexity I think better for for the research actually than GPT but >> actually GPT is getting better with deep research and um pretty good >> I'm pretty surprised uh they are they pick up pretty quickly uh against perplexity so I'm using I'm trying both to see the result of both but the deep research really allow you to have like um doing AI the research on top executive of the account also on top of the 10K and It's amazing.

>> If we go back to the role play, you mentioned a batch of GPT. Um I was playing with it and yeah, it's it's amazing because um it's really well trained I would say in terms of >> you need to train it obviously >> because uh you need to use your framework uh to train it and then uh um I created a prompt to do that. So you have like the cold calling role play, but then you have uh the uh the AI, they can give you feedback about your your role play. So I think yeah, it's great for for coing. Um >> yeah, it's it's I mean it's so much better than role playing with a person because you can tell it how difficult you want it to be.

You can tell it to pretend to be the CMO at XYZ company that you're reaching out to. I mean, you could tell it to realistically do a lot of those things. It's pretty cool. >> I know there is one specifically that K mentioned on on on the podcast that they use and they basically you can use your own calls to train the the AI model. So the AI is not like u making up stuff. It's using real conversation and so you can practice with it. And I think that's yeah next level to do that because it's not like uh trained on it's really strained on your situation.

So >> um if you had to compress all your calling wisdom into three non-negotiable principles what would they be? >> Oh man three non-negotiable principles I think uh one of them is the habit is more important than the outcome. This is just like exercise, just like eating healthy. The habit of doing this on a regular basis is way more important than how that call block went. >> So, you got to make sure to do that. Um, the second one would be customer voice over product voice. When in doubt, I'm always going to speak from the voice of the customer about their problems, etc.

Um, lastly, I don't want to like I want to be mindful of the connection between how I interact with people in my personal life and and my professional life. And the and the point that I'm making here is that >> a lot of people transform into a different human when they cold call or when they hop on sales calls. >> They start talking like this and they're like, "Hey, Alick." You know, they they talk like they're talking to a little kid or a dog or something, right? They use uptalk, customer voice, etc.

So treat them like a human. You're talking with another human. Like you need to be conversational. Keep it casual, not unprofessional, but keep it casual and conversational and it's going to serve you really well. >> Nice. U just to follow up on practice. Uh you mentioned practice and we didn't talk about call reactus. Uh how to handle rejection specifically for calling. Um I'm sorry I just have a delivery. Can you hear me? One sec. >> Yeah, no problem. Door Dash. >> No, Amazon. Uh, yeah, the We need the code just for the delivery for this one.

Uh, the the food for my dog. So, >> so fancy dog food. Love it. >> That's cheaper on Amazon than buying it from the shop. Uh, so >> there you go. Um okay so sorry uh so we are talking about practicing specifically and I think practicing I think it's underestimated for calling specifically and the other day I was recording a webinar with a French company actually no with cognism for the French market and we are talking about what you need to practice for coording and not just expecting to be good on the phone without practicing.

And so, uh, I think practicing, we don't talk about it enough. So, >> yeah, I mean, this is a way that you can have really structured practice because with the pickup rates being so low, um, you get very few opportunity. It's not like you're most people, if you're not using a dialer, you're not having dozens of conversations on the phone every week. You get very little time to actually get your repetitions in. So, you have to practice with AI or with a partner or do something. >> Yeah. And actually the push back I had in France is because the connect rate in France is way higher than in the US.

In France, >> yeah, >> some companies have like 30 plus connect rates. So that's why they say, "Yeah, I'm practicing with my prospect because that you need to practice with your prospect if you want to be good." >> Yeah. >> Yes. And no, I don't think you shouldn't practice on your on your own prospect. You should do both, actually. >> Yeah, you definitely need to do both. But I'll tell you what, I'd rather have reps that have a bias towards calling prospects than not calling prospects. >> Oh yeah.

>> Um Jason, we are already at the end of the recording. So uh if anyone want to learn more about you or Squad, what's the best way uh to >> Yeah, outboundsquad.com is going to be the best place. So you're going to find links to a bunch of free resources there. We have a podcast as well. Go check it out. Outbound Squad podcast. Um, I post free content every day on LinkedIn. And if you're a sales leader looking to get help implementing some of the stuff that we talked about for your team or for your SDRs, for your AEES or you're making an outbound pivot in your organization and want AES to do more self-sourcing, whatever it might be, you can hit us up there as well.

So, outboundsquad.com is the best place to to learn about us. >> Perfect. Thank you so much for being on the show and for everyone listening. I see you on the next episode.
