# How to crush the Director of SDR role with Rippling’s Sr SDR Director

**Expert:** Jason Bay

**Rank:** 15

**Metadata Score:** 51

**Published:** 2026-03-17

**Duration:** 00:54:19

**Views:** 285

**Likes:** 9

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fVY6pWPRPm0

---

# Transcript

So we unfortunately didn't get a chance to connect in person a couple weeks ago when I was in Charlotte, but it's it's good to to be on here with you virtually, man. It's great to be here with you as well. I'm I'm honored to be on this podcast. Oh, I'm super honored, too, man. I uh I was catching up with Jonas you know, a couple weeks ago when we met in Boston and I was just like dude, Rippling has just grown so much in the last two or three years since we worked together and I thought that might be a good place to start.

Um what was Rippling like when you first joined? Where are you guys at now and all that good stuff? So I think you and I worked together roughly like 10 or 11 months into me starting at Rippling. I've now been at Rippling for about 3 and 1/2 years. I was hired by Ashley Kelly, who's our VP of SDR back in AK. Back in late 2022. And at the time they had never really built an outbound function before. And I think you and I have talked about this before, but I think one of the things that's like super unique about Rippling is that uh Rippling was able to hit sort of these insane growth metrics off of inbound alone.

They surpassed series D uh just on inbound. And so late 2022, AK was hired and really the big rock for her was to build out an outbound motion. And so I was hired with uh a team of about nine SDRs, all of whom I believe had had been former inbound SDRs at Rippling. And we started to build the playbook from there. Uh it was definitely not an easy process. I think when you try to build a new outbound motion from the ground up, especially when you're working with SDRs who've never really done cold calling or any of their own outbound before, it's it's certainly challenging.

Um but I think by the end of that first year we'd scaled it from I I think like eight or nine SDRs to I want to say maybe close to to like 70. And now we are closing in, I think, in the US on about 350 SDRs and even more than that globally. So it has just been this massive growth engine for the business. And the last few months have been focused on like building out more segmented teams, uh product specific teams, all under the outbound umbrella. So it's it's really been cool. Yeah. The when you have seen outbound motions not work, like how much of that is like the wrong person in the seat in your experience where it's like we have a rep here.

You mentioned like, hey, we're taking people that don't have a lot of cold outbound experience or maybe we're trying to take people that have done a lot of inbound and we're trying to make them outbound. Like what's your experience been with that? So I think like it it's twofold. Number one, like you should never force anybody into an outbound SDR role who who doesn't want to be in it. Um and I think like one of the early challenges for us was like we needed to weave this into our growth path. And I think we took a lot of people who were very comfortable with the inbound SDR job and were like, hey, like you want to be an AE, you need to to learn how to do outbound because our AEs are going to need to start doing outbound at some point as well.

Um as far as the manager side goes, I think it depends. There's there's certainly scenarios where you can hire the wrong leaders to to build out an SDR function. And I think there are different leaders who are the right leaders at the right time depending on the stage of the organization. Um but I also think if you have the right cross-functional elements in place, like you can build the right motion even with sort of like a mediocre leader or a newer leader. And I use myself as an example only because when AK hired me, and she jokes to me about this all the time, I had actually come in without any second line leadership experience prior to joining Rippling.

I'd built SDR functions at prior companies, but it was really me sort of in a quote-unquote director capacity, but in reality I was sort of like owning the operational side, but still frontline leading reps. And so >> Yeah. um AK took a shot on me and I think really what helped me develop in the role was that Rippling invests very heavily in cross-functional support for their SDR teams. So that means like every SDR function at Rippling has a dedicated RevOps person. They have a dedicated enablement person.

They have a territory ops person that they work with. Um they have a growth and marketing lead who helps them like carve out new sequences and figure out like, you know, what the best email copy is for the reps. And so and even like talk tracks and and scripts and things like that. So um I think you can certainly prop up a a mediocre leader and and make them into a great one. And I think like I have learned a ton in just 3 and 1/2 years in this role. Um but I think it really depends on the resources of the business.

I think if you take like a poor leader and put them in a company where they have um it you put them into a company where they have like not the resources in place, like I think what can end up happening is that the team flounders. Yeah. That specialization is really like when you can achieve the scale that Rippling has achieved, like, you know, when you say dedicated enablement, dedicated RevOps, dedicated territory like ops, like do you think that that type of specialization is what it really takes to make outbound work right now?

I I think so. And I think part of that is because like >> [clears throat] >> as I'm sure you hear from SDR leaders all the time, you're constantly being met with more resistance. So it's like new phone filters that are in place, AI email blockers, things like that. You're competing with a lot of >> dude. Yeah, AI email copy. You're you're competing with a lot of these one-man shops who are just leveraging Clay and these other tools to basically operate as an automated SDR team. And so in order to really stand out, like the the way I think about it is um when we stood up email marketing here for our outbound SDRs, like we'd never warmed up additional domains before.

And so what ended up happening was we were starting to see really high bounce rates. And and fortunately we had like really sharp marketers in place who recognized this very quickly and helped us optimize to overcome that. But it it is certainly become more and more challenging over time to get in front of prospects. Um and so to have the right cross-functional people in place, you know, allows you to make sure that like your buttoned up in every single area that matters, understanding that like you may have lower connect rates than you would have had 5 to 10 years ago.

You may have, you know, lower deliverability rates than you would have had 5 to 10 years ago. And so to have these cross-functional teams help you kind of break through a lot of that chaos, I think is super valuable. Yeah, and it's like you're saving the brain space of the SDR or the SDR manager who might be tasked at other companies with doing a lot of this stuff, creating the cadences, like doing the freaking training, you know, like that sort of stuff. You're taking as much as you can off of the plate of the SDR and the SDR manager.

And it's like, how can we just get you as much as possible on the phone, responding, like doing this human the things that only a human can do effectively. >> That's right. I mean, I know you you met with Jonas a week or so ago and um for the people listening, Jonas is our VP of enablement at Rippling. And he has built this absolute machine of an enablement program here. And I'm now on, I think, my third or fourth uh like new motion build for our outbound program at Rippling. And I want to shout out one of our enablement leaders.

Her name is Don A. Goodrich. And she helped me stand up our IT SDR function over the last year. And one of the things that we faced in building out this team was like we were trying to sell to a new ICP that we weren't really comfortable selling into with a new talk track, a much more technical product, um much stricter qualification criteria, and a brand new team of SDRs. We basically scaled the team from like zero to 20 SDRs in under a couple of months. And so you you have to understand that like you're trying to teach these people this brand new product in a brand new space um with managers who maybe are native to Rippling, but have never sold this product either.

Yeah. >> And then at the same time you're trying to teach them outbound, objection handling, uh priority drops, yeah. I mean, >> [laughter] >> permission-based openers, that whole thing. And so you're doing this all at once. And so I think [clears throat] like as we discussed before, you can imagine that an SDR leader who doesn't have a good enablement resource is probably going to be spending a good chunk of their bandwidth building the onboarding program, building the playbooks and the in the sequences and the trainings that are going to happen on an ongoing basis.

Um and so Don A., who's been my enablement partner over the last year, has played a massive role in just like freeing up a lot of my time so I can spend time like on the things that actually matter, which is like figuring out how we can best support our AEs and focusing like a little bit more on the strategy side of the business rather than just writing sequences all day and training reps on objection handling. Like she's played massive role because she's come from a sales background as well. Yep.

Love it. Let's dig into some of the stuff that we wanted to talk about around being a great second line leader. And I think one of the first things that you sort of alluded to this earlier was there's very common, I mean, you see this on the sales development side and the sales side where someone has the director or head of in their title, but they're really more of frontline leader. And they're managing the reps. and there's kind of two totally different skill sets, and that director that is also a frontline leader, it's it's a tough position.

Yeah. You know? It's like you got the reps that you're working with, you have to manage up still like an executive. Um walk us through like what what's your journey been with us Um >> Yep. in the last couple years learning this, and what are some of the learnings? Yeah, so I think myself like a lot of other SDR leaders get into leading SDRs because they love the idea of coaching people through that like early stage of their career, and it's sort of just like non-stop managing people through promotion cycles.

Like you get a new rep, manage them for a year to a year and a half, you promote them, it feels great, right? You build these short-term relationships with the reps, um you see them succeed, you watch them become AEs, sales managers, directors of sales, etc. It's like a really amazing experience. Um but I think one of the potential pitfalls of getting into SDR leadership is you are also like very, very bought in to the people who you directly manage. And like part of that comes down to the fact that it's like, "Look, like I genuinely care about these people.

I want to see them win at all costs." And sometimes that actually gets in the way of what's best for the business. And so I I've been My first SDR manager role was at JustWorks, which is actually like a competitor to Rippling. Um >> Oh. So before certain product lines. We [laughter] we looked into them for a little bit, and it was really clear to me cuz we ended up, you know, we use Rippling. I don't know if I told you that or not. >> I I know that you do. Yeah, yeah, which is great. Okay, so we we just upgraded in in JustWorks uh I talked to them.

It was not the best experience, I'll leave it at that. But um >> Well, I don't I don't want to disparage them. I mean, I had I had a great experience working there, but I think like for me >> Yeah. this is my first SDR manager role. Um and I think like what I cared about most was just like making sure my reps were happy, making sure they hit quota, making sure that I was making my variable, and to me that was like all that mattered. It was kind of just like, "If I win and my reps win, then like everyone else sees that I'm doing a great job, and that's what matters.

I'm getting paid my full variable, I'm happy." Um and that is very common, I would say, for like first-time SDR managers. You're just like, "Look, I want to win. I want to see myself at the top of the leaderboard. I want to have the top performer on my team." But when you start to move into more of an operational capacity or like the first-time SDR director role, which was like what I did, where it was sort of like a hybrid between frontline managing and sec uh and and more of the operational side of things, you realize that like that is not a mindset that you can have.

Um you actually need to care about like what your team is contributing to the the overall results of the business. And so something that is like really stuck with me throughout my career was at the company I was at prior to to Rippling, I was in that capacity where I was frontlining a team, building the playbooks, but also working cross-functionally. So I was I was managing up and and you know, working with our CFO and our CEO and our CRO. Um And I would have these meetings with our CFO, I would say, probably once once a month, where she and I would sit down, and we would look at sort of the CAC payback uh for the for the AE and SDR side of the business.

Yeah. >> And I would show up to that meeting and be like, "Hey, my team's crushing their numbers, but like I really don't want you to raise quotas. Like everyone's really happy, they're performing well, morale is really good." And she was like, "Well, we need to raise quotas because we need to be able to support the the business, and like uh sales efficiency is not where it needs to be. Our funnel efficiency is not where it needs to be." And I said, "Okay, well, you can raise quotas this time, but please don't do it to me again." And this was an earlier-stage high-growth business, and so over time I I will will never forget it.

I think we raised quotas like five times in six months. And you can imagine me being in like my second >> Five times in six months? Yeah, and I think I mean, here here's the thing, like when you are at a high-growth startup, this is not an uncommon thing, right? Like you're still figuring out things as you go, you're growing an SDR team, but you're you're building the plane as you fly. You're trying to figure out like how this team can effectively support uh the AE function while not becoming so capitally inefficient that uh the team can no longer exist.

Yeah. And so I was fighting her every step of the way because I wanted to make sure that my reps were going to get paid their full variable. I wanted to get paid my full variable. I thought that raising quotas this often was creating a ton of thrash for the SDRs. Um and I will never forget it, but like I didn't get a ton of face time with the CEO at at my company at the time. Um he's an amazing leader, his name is Jonathan Poma, but he booked time uh with me uh after I had complained I I think about uh raising quotas one too many times.

And he he sent me this article by this um this famous like consultant named Patrick uh Lencioni, which is about the idea of first and second teams. And it really stuck with me, and he he basically sent it to me, and he said, "Hey, just read this before we meet, uh and I want to just like get your overall thoughts on it when we meet." And so I read this article, and it has stuck with me, I think, at this point for probably the last six years of my career. And basically what it talks about is that when you move into leadership for the first time, um you know, you think that your first team is actually the people who report to you, right?

Or like your immediate silo. But in reality, your your first team are your peer leaders and those above you. And that's because when you move into leadership, you are taking on the responsibility of the business, right? Like it's not just about winning for yourself and for the people that you manage, it's also about like doing what is best for the business and those around you. And moving into second-line leadership, that becomes even more pertinent and important. >> [clears throat] >> Yeah. And I think that is something that that was sort of a flip-switch moment for me when I realized, "Okay, like I absolutely need to support my people and be a compassionate leader, but at the same time like I need to actually care about the number of deals that we're closing, our the length of our average sales cycle, our ACVs, right?

Our win rates, things like that, which I never cared about prior to that." And so I think it that had a massive impact I I think on me as a leader, and it's transformed the way that I operate today. That's such a good learning moment. Yeah. I love that your CEO took you aside and did that. Because one of the things that we talked about in preparing for this is you know, how little training that you get the further up an organization you move. Yeah. I think we're just now in SaaS, and SaaS does this the best out of most of the industries that I've worked with.

I mean, outside of SaaS, enablement is usually not even a thing, and there's maybe isn't even sales trainers, and everyone just kind of does their own thing. Yeah. >> But we focus so much on the reps. And there's more focus now on managers, but as a second-line leader, I would imagine you didn't get any kind of formal training or coaching on like, "Hey, here's like how you should be thinking about this. Here's how you should kind of engineer and set up your week. Um here's how you run a one-on-one with a manager versus a rep.

Here's how you should structure like the team meetings that you do." My guess is you probably didn't get a lot of that. Uh I would say I didn't, but I also would say that like being hired by AK, uh who's like a best-in-class SDR team, >> Yeah, dude. it it definitely [laughter] it definitely played like a big role in helping me understand how to to focus on like the cadence of meetings and how to manage managers for the first time. I think one of the most difficult parts though of like becoming a second-line leader for the first time is like trying to create consistency in both like culture and performance management across every team that you have.

Yeah. >> the larger your teams get, um the harder it is to to manage that consistently. And you really want to make sure that like every manager is certainly able to add their own spin to the way that they lead their team, but you want to make sure that like if one rep were to move from one team to another team within a month, that they would have an identical experience in terms of meeting in terms of call reviews, the way that their one-on-ones are structured, if they are underperforming, like making sure they have a consistent performance management process that's equitable with like what a peer would be doing on another team.

And so I think like for a first-time second-line leader, I think that is one of the most challenging pieces to pick up is like making sure that like you know, when you are a frontline manager, you obviously want your reps to be operating consistently, but you know that they're not going to, right? You recognize that some reps are like far better on the phone. Some reps are absolutely just going to be like volume people over email. Like you try to manage to that and make sure that like from a process standpoint, reps are consistent, but it becomes even more vital when you are leading managers in a large team of managers.

Most of our second-line leaders here are are leading, I would say, at least four teams. Um and so it's important that all of the reps have a consistent experience even as we become more layered as as a leadership team. How do you think about the when you are trying to roll out standardization and getting people to follow a common approach, etc., how do you think about rolling something like that out? How do you enforce it? How do you know how much time to give something? Yeah. So let's say that you're rolling out a new one-on-one cadence or a structure for how we want to run one-on-ones and prep, and you know, all of that kind of stuff.

How How do What do think about rolling something like that out? Yeah, so I think the the Rippling way is to try to create a fair amount of lead time uh to get manager buy-in. So, if a manager is not fluent on the new process and they're not bought into the new process and you're not able to bring them along with you, it is very hard to trust that they will be able to bring their teams along as well. Right? And I think like when you have a very large management team, you need to spend the time on like enabling managers on a new process, helping them understand the why, you know, having them prove to you that they are actually able to adapt to the new process and they can show you how they're going to implement it with their teams.

And once you've gotten to that place where there's that that trust that's been built, both from you trusting that your managers are going to do this, but also your managers feeling like they trust why the decision was made, that is sort of the appropriate time to roll out a new process, right? So, something I think we've we've changed many times here sort of our standard template for for one-on-one docs for SDRs as an example, right? And like what sort of metrics need to be recorded there, uh what sort of topics need to be covered in one-on-ones.

And it might seem like, you know, trivial to most people, but it's actually not, right? It's like every SDR has said, but it's it's not trivial at all. And so, if I'm to go to my manager and be like, "Hey, previously you didn't need to to manually record any KPIs in here, but now I need you to fill this out every week and put all of your reps' prior week's KPIs in this one-on-one doc before your one-on-one." The immediate reaction from the manager is going to be like, "Okay, well, you just created a bunch of busy work for me." And and that's super frustrating to me and it's taking me off the floor from working with my reps.

And so, it's really important that you help the manager understand why this change is is going into effect and it's like, "Hey, like if you're accountable to your reps' metrics, then they will be more accountable to it. There needs to be an understanding of of this thing where like we're sitting down and we're looking at the prior week's KPIs, we're identifying trends in the data week-over-week to make sure that like if we're falling off in certain areas, we find a path to course correct." And so, I think if you're able to explain it that way, there's probably a better chance that the manager is going to buy in versus just being like, "Sorry, you have to do this.

We're making everyone do this. And so, you just have to buy in and your rep has to buy in and you just need to get on board." Like the latter to me is just it's not going to wash with with most managers. So, if we were to get kind of tactical with this, cuz I think people love hearing the details, do you like to do this in like a like a team meeting where you're going to bring it up with everyone? Do you kind of tease it out that way? Do you take it to a one-on-one first? Do you try to find a champion manager of yours that you know is really going to lobby behind this and work with them?

Like How do you How do you bring this up? So, I I think my personal preference is probably a little bit like we have as I mentioned before, we have a very large SDR function in like some parts of our business at this point are absolutely giant. And I've recently taken on like building out some of our our smaller pilot teams focused on like these ancillary products. So, my management style has always been that like I like to include my managers in the building process. Um I like to get their feedback on on proposed ideas before we actually lock them in.

But ultimately the ultimately at the end of the day, I am very clear on the fact that like, "Hey, we will certainly like take the feedback, but we very well could move forward with a certain process that like may be against what you talked about in the feedback session. And I promise that if we roll it out, you will understand why we are doing this." But generally, I do like to bring my managers along, like have them involved in the brainstorming and um I think any of my managers could probably attest to that if they end up listening to this.

Um but that is my style. I would not say that that's like every uh senior leader's style. Yeah, where it's like ultimately the business is going to have certain things that need to get done. Yeah. And you might be the decision-maker on that, but you're going to take input and you want buy-in. And there's this collective brain that can help. How do you then inspect? So, you're like, "Okay, uh Burton team, uh we're going to roll out this this new one-on-one uh approach. I want you guys to start using this.

We've got buy-in around it. Next week is when we're going to start doing this." Yeah. How do you like inspect and reinforce and make sure that it's actually happening, that it's happening at a quality a level of quality that's good, that they're still doing it a couple quarters from now? Like how do you How do you think about that part? So, I don't Jonas may or may not have mentioned this, but like I would say of the company values at Rippling, like the one that is probably voiced the most and the one that you hear about the most is our our value go and see.

And go and see is this idea that like no matter how how high up in leadership you are at the company, you are not above going to see what's happening at the ground level. And so, what that means is like senior leaders are responsible for inspecting one-on-one docs and to make sure that this stuff is happening consistently. Like I still in my one-on-ones with managers every week, like we will go through one-on-one docs that the managers have had with the reps. And one of the things that I inspect is I basically say like, "Hey, based on what you're seeing in like the data here, like have you set a smart goal for the rep that they can hit within the next week?

And if they don't hit that goal within the next week, like what is the plan of action?" And so like for me, like the only way that you do that is by spot-checking like specific one-on-one docs. I know that seems like a fair amount of uh oversight that maybe isn't necessary, but it is instilled in our company values and even Parker, our CEO, is like very involved in trying to diagnose um what's going on at the ground level. And I think it has been honestly one of like the the most significant growth engines for the company.

It's like really having the C-suite and even like the VP or director level uh do ground level inspection. Go and see. I wish I wish more senior leaders would do stuff like this. Yeah. It's it's not rocket science, but it does take extra effort. And like you got to be pretty detail-oriented around it. How do you How do you do this in a way where a manager is not feeling like or a rep is not feeling like I'm being micromanaged? And I think that I bring that up because this is like the number one fear I hear from managers.

Oh. >> Yeah. You wanted them to fill out a one-on-one prep doc? Like I don't want to micromanage them. Yeah. So, I I think look, there there certainly is a balance and I think like micromanagement is it's it's a dirty word, right? Like or is it a dirty term? Like I I think it's one of these things that like it's a scenario that no one wants to be in. I think there is a level of it that has to happen when you grow as quickly as we do, because it's like you can lose track of a lot of things very quickly, right?

Like we talked about this before, but when you scale from like zero to 150 SDRs in two years, right? Like you naturally need to have some inspection in place. It's actually less about micromanagement and as just to keep going back to the point from before, it's actually about ensuring a consistent experience for all reps across the team. Right? Like if one rep is being held like hyper accountable to certain KPIs or certain processes and their managers all over them about it and like the rep is seeing success from it, my hope is that we could get every team to emulate that.

Um and what I don't want to see happen is a scenario where like a rep is not receiving um that level of support or consistency from their manager and they're floundering. Right? And one of the things I always say to my managers is I'm like, "Look, like it might seem like what you're doing is a lot of additional work and it might feel like micromanagement, but it's actually both to protect you and the reps, because if like something were to go wrong, there's going to be data that you can point to.

There's going to be things that you've done consistently that you can point to that will both protect you and the rep uh in a way that will actually like allow you to to sort of sustain improvement over time. Like we can actually pinpoint areas that need to be addressed. And so, when you're working with that rep more closely, we have historical data to look at. We have consistent documentation that you can reference. And you can actually support the rep in a way where they actually don't feel like it's coming out of thin air." Let's talk about that next.

One of the things we talked about in preparing for this was the problem diagnosis. I think this happens on multiple levels >> [snorts] >> for you. If you could walk through There's a special type of way you like to run your team meetings with your managers. And then I would also love to hear like So, how you problem diagnose like in your business. And then I think that there's probably a layer under that with like if I'm a manager, how how do I problem diagnose with like my reps? How do I figure out what to work with them on?

And we started, if I remember correctly, when we worked together, I think we teased out a little bit of that where I was like showing some examples of reports that you would want to be able to look at to be able to do that. But yeah, problem diagnosis. How do you This is like I feel like a really big strength of yours. So, this is actually not unique to me. This is like very This is a I think something that's instilled into all of our leaders on the SDR side of the business and it's it's really sort of about hypothesis testing, right?

So, when you see a data point that stands out to you or if you have a rep that's struggling, right? It is very easy to just make an assumption around why the rep is struggling, right? So, let's say that like a rep has a really low connect-to-demo rate, right? And you just have an assumption for why that's happening. You're like, "Well, you know, the rep is like getting a bunch of connects, but like they're not real connects. They're calling the wrong people. And so like even though they're connecting with people, maybe they're like not logging this correctly and then therefore their connect-to-demo rate is unnaturally low." That could be one example.

And I think like the issue there is that you know, a manager is is essentially like putting their own bias into how they are managing that rep. And they're not taking an exhaustive approach. So, the exhaustive approach is this idea that you should think of every potential reason why the connected demo rate is low. Right? Like some of it could come down to soft skills on the phone. Some of it could come down to the line of questioning that they're using on the phone. Some of it could come down to the personas that they're speaking to, right?

Maybe they are continuing to put the wrong people in the sequence and so they're getting connects, but they're ultimately determining that the people that they're speaking to are not relevant. They're mutually parting ways on the phone. And so it is your job as the manager to create an exhaustive approach in the way that you think about coaching your reps, because that's what's fair to them and it's also what's going to make you a better manager and it's going to create more trust between you and your senior leader.

And so, from my perspective, like when I manage my managers and and we're talking about like what's going on with that manager's team or we're talking about a specific rep on the team and they just say like, "Well, yeah, I like kind of get the vibe that this rep is just struggling with X, Y, and Z." I'm kind of like, "Well, that's that's not fair to you or the rep." Like we actually need to really unpack what's going on here. I need you to show me that you've like gone into outreach, you've listened to a bunch of calls, you've shadowed the reps process, and you've written down sort of a exhaustive list of of what you're seeing and then you can parse out like what the coaching opportunities are.

And piecemeal those out, right? It's like, "Hey, like here's what I've identified going through five of your calls last week. Here's what I think we should work on this week." And you you you communicate that to the rep, but like you help the rep understand like why you are noticing this and like what what you looked at to get there versus just saying like, "Oh, like you're struggling with this one metric, so we need to improve this metric." Cuz a lot of managers do that. A lot of managers are just like, "Well, it's an effort issue.

You're just not working hard enough." And that really sucks to hear when you're a rep who's like busting their ass and your manager comes to you and is just like, "Well, you're clearly not working hard enough. You're clearly not trying." And you show up every day and you know that you're working really hard and you just feel like maybe there's a part of your process that just needs to be tweaked. Um and so it's important for your manager to show that they've done that exhaustive work. Uh dude, I love the attitude around that too, where it's you're doing the rep a disservice by just saying, "Hey, you know, you need to make 50 more calls this week than you did last week." Right.

And I'm not just going to come in and like have a an uninformed hypothesis on what I think is going on. I'm going to do my due diligence. Like I'm going to cover my ass and I want to show that we're doing that. Um is there any other formality that you provide to managers around that? Like is there like a checklist of stuff like, "Hey, when a rep is not setting meetings and you see a low connect rate, here are the three things that might be happening." Is it that formalized or is it more up to the manager to kind of figure out what that is and you brainstorm as a group together?

Like So, I I believe like I I mean, I'm I probably shoot myself in the foot here. I think at some point we had we had actually discussed about like rolling out a formal framework for this, but I I think as far as the way that my managers do it, it's like it it really is about creating an exhaustive list. And so, if you limit the parameters of what you're trying to identify, then it's not going to be exhaustive. So, uh maybe I'm kind of like dancing around the question here, but like no, I don't think there's like a ton of structure around it, but I think that's intentional.

Right? >> Yeah. >> Because I think like if if you if you put too many constraints around the problem that you're trying to identify or the the problem that you're trying to unpack uh there's a good chance that you actually might miss what's really going on. Yeah. I think you do keep it a little bit uh looser parameter-wise. And I think you kind of stifle creativity if it's it's if it's a little bit too much of a math equation, you know, cuz there is the art and science of of what we do, for sure.

Um let's talk more about managers and like manager paths. Um one of the things that you talked about is there's kind of like three there's three very distinct paths and how you as a director, I would assume, manage those managers and coach them up is one of the things you might have to really take in consideration is where they came from. Right? So, what are those different manager paths and how do you think about as a director Yeah. supporting managers based on their previous experience and where they might have come from?

Yeah, so I think, you know, there there probably countless paths that you see, but like I've identified, I think, like the three kind of core paths to SDR leadership. And those are uh as like an internal SDR to SDR manager, sometimes internal AE to SDR manager. You have your external SDR manager who you're hiring as a as a like a second-timer or third-time SDR manager. And then uh you actually have your external AEs who you hire as first-time SDR managers at your company. And and that one is sort of the the least traditional, uh but that was actually the path that I took.

So, I was hired uh I'd been an AE at LinkedIn and then I was hired as a um SDR manager at Justworks. I never led SDRs before. Um and it it was definitely an interesting path for me. But what I found as a second-line leader is like all of those different candidate profiles have certain strengths and they also have certain weaknesses. So, like to break those down, I think we have promoted a lot of SDRs to SDR managers at Rippling and a lot of them absolutely crush it. Um and part of that is because they they have the uh the tribal knowledge or the institutional knowledge.

So, you don't have to train them on the the product, you don't have to train them on the processes or the tools. And so, therefore, you can pretty easily slot them into seat um at least from a process standpoint. It's like, "Hey, you're taking over a team. These people need mentorship. You did a really good job in your role. More likely than not, you're going to be comfortable training these people on on what their day-to-day should look like." Where I think internal promotions often suffer, especially for people who have not uh like been an AE prior to this is that there's often times like not that appreciation for the full sales cycle.

So, going back to what we said before about like first and second teams, like if you've only been an SDR and then you're becoming an SDR manager, like what you know is like when I was an SDR, I was focused on hitting my converted demo quota. Like that was what mattered. And now I'm managing a team where their quotas roll up to me and that's what matters to me most. And so, you're you're still like pretty far removed from the end result, which is like you know, improved win rates, improved ACVs, the full sales cycle.

And so, I think like one of the challenges that you face in managing like a first-time SDR manager who's come from an SDR role is helping them understand that like, "Hey, there may be certain situations where like you view something as qualified and and by the book, it's like very black and white qualified, but it's not a deal that's going to go the distance. And as frustrating as that is, it's important for us to understand like why this is not a good deal for the business." And like why this is going to eat up a lot of AE capacity if we continue to push deals through like this.

And so, I think that's sort of like the first coaching moment for for that group of leaders. Um you know, the second is just like never having managed a team before and and making sure that those people are comfortable with the idea of performance management. Also, the fact that many of them are going to be managing former peers, that can always be challenging. Um to go to the second profile uh hiring external SDR managers, so people who've been SDR managers at other companies. Um a lot of times they they've come in with a fair amount of knowledge on like how an SDR team should be led, right?

So, they've done the performance management stuff, they've they've they've sort of built their own meeting cadences, they know how to run one-on-ones, they know how to build teams, interview, hire, all that sort of stuff. But they also often times come in with a strong point of view on how things should be done. And I think like every company that I've been a part of has a very culturally different SDR org. Um and especially when you think about like the product that you're selling, sales cycles, uh the different verticals and personas that you're speaking to, like it is going to be different.

And so, I think you need to help that manager as a as a second-line leader, it is your responsibility to help that manager find a balance between contributing the stuff that they've learned and seen at their prior company, cuz there is value in that and it's a part of why we hired them, but at the same time helping them adapt um to the culture and processes that we have here. And I think that's especially present when we hire SDR managers who've come from like much smaller companies who are now part of like a very large and layered leadership team that has a lot of like very deeply instilled processes like we have here.

And then the last one is is uh AE to SDR manager. So, this is somebody who like the the benefit of this is they have that appreciation for the full sales cycle. They understand like when they see an opportunity that shouldn't be booked, like they're going to coach their team to make sure their team understands why they shouldn't book that. Um they're also going to make sure that like, you know, they're helping the SDRs from a prospecting perspective understand how to target the right accounts, because when they were an AE, they probably had to do some of their own outbounding or if they didn't, they understood how to disqualify things quickly so that they weren't bloating their their pipeline.

Um on the flip side, right, you have to spend a lot of time teaching them everything they need to know about managing for the first time. And you're hiring them externally, so they're learning the product, the processes the performance management cadence, the one-on-one cadence, the call review cadence, like all stuff that they've never done before. And so, I think like the AE to SDR manager path, certainly from my perspective, probably takes the most amount of coaching. But also like it was a very successful path for me.

Like it was the best thing I've ever done with my career. And so I think one of the challenges of being a second line leader is that you have all of these different profiles and you have to be able to like adjust your management style to each of them and also play up the strengths of each of those groups, right? I look at my my management team today uh and I have at least like on on the teams that I'm managing today, I have a couple of people who've been promoted internally. I have some people who I hired who were AEs at other companies um and I have people who we've hired who are SDR managers at other companies and it is very apparent to me like when I need to play up certain strengths with certain leaders and when I need to dial certain things in.

So how do you how do you think about and like kind of keep track of of that kind of stuff? Like for example for some of the folks on our team I have you know, I have a whole notion doc that I use to kind of plan my week on a Monday for example and in that notion doc are the people that report to me which is not as many as you. But it's it's um I've listed out a couple of things like you know, what this person needs um areas of development. Like I kind of keep these notes on people like different things.

Are you doing something similar like that? Is are you mostly just going with your gut feeling in the moment? Like how much intentionality I guess is brought into like hey, I have these very different people with not only different personalities but very like vastly different experiences and skill levels and strengths and weaknesses etc. How do you approach managing them differently? Sure. How do you keep track of that? I think the first thing is like you need to be very vocal about the strengths that like certain leaders are coming in with and making sure that you actually like elevate those strengths in like a public setting.

Um and making it very clear that like they should lean on that like their peer managers should lean on them for certain skill sets, right? So Uh-huh. I have a manager on my on my IT SDR team. Her name is Maddie. And she was a top performing SDR here uh and she actually like helped build and formulate our initial playbook for the IT team. And so this is somebody who has like deep institutional knowledge, right? And she's somebody who like built the playbook so she understands uh the competitive landscape, the customers that we're selling to.

She understands the product at a deep level. And so when I hire a new manager, one of the things I say to her is I'm like say to them is I'm like look, you're coming in without this this institutional knowledge. This is someone that you should lean on. Um on the flip side, you know, Maddie doesn't have that closing experience. And so when I have a manager who's come in with closing experience right? And they're having challenges let's say with certain opportunities that maybe she has some opportunities on her team that have been funneled over to AEs that have turned out to not be qualified I may have her spend some time with that manager to to understand number one how to properly advocate for those meetings in a way that will like help us understand whether or not they're going to go the distance but also like you know, showing up to basically say like hey, let me help you understand like why as an AE I would not have worked this deal.

Um so like I I am I'm definitely a big delegator as a leader especially as it relates to to that element of things. Um but as far as like the coaching piece goes, I also make sure that every manager is keeping a brag sheet during their time here. Uh especially when you have managers who are like looking for a path to like second line leadership. Um and to me a brag sheet is something that we can like stress test and gut check together. And so sometimes like I'll take you know, I'll meet with a manager who's been here for a while and be like all right, it's time to start putting together this brag sheet.

And like in the process of building that out, we'll start to highlight areas of opportunity where I'm like hey, in order for you to kind of get to that next step notice that this is not part of your brag sheet today. Like this is an area of coaching that you and I need to focus on. Let's put together sort of like a short-term plan that we can help to make sure that you check off boxes in this one area of weakness so that you can become a more well-rounded leader. Love that, man. I'd like to shift the focus now to we talk a lot about at Autobahn Squad the weekly rhythm.

And it's the equivalent of like hey, I've said I want to work out, I want to get in shape, I want to eat better, get shredded, whatever. Um what's the weekly rhythm? Like how does that come into when you're going to go to the gym, when you're going to eat, when you're going to grocery shop etc. And I think that having a weekly rhythm as a rep or a manager or as a leader um is really helpful for a lot of people and I'm I'm curious if you could walk us through your weekly rhythm like how you like to structure your week.

Yeah. When you like to do one-on-ones, how many team meetings you do, the different types of team meetings. Like what does a week in in the life of Burt look like? Sure. This is something that actually over time I feel like I've gotten a lot better at. I would say like when I first when I was in like my first director role, I don't feel like I had a lot of structure in the way that I operated and and you could sort of feel it. If you were reporting to me, you would feel like Burt was kind of flying by the [laughter] seat of his pants.

Uh I I can admit to that. Um I actually feel like my operating cadence at this point is like in a really really good place. Um and so every Monday like the first thing that my managers and I do every week is a weekly business review where we do a retro on the on the previous week and really what we just look at is like KPIs across teams throughout the course of the week and and how they trended in comparison to prior weeks. And so similar to what we talked about before in terms of hypothesis testing I know that we discussed doing that on the rep level.

We actually do that for an entire segment. So I will for example for my spend team or my IT SDR team we will sit down. We will look at the metrics in comparison to how they've paced in prior weeks and we will highlight areas of opportunity and then we will have a long discussion about like why we think we fell short in a certain area or why we think we exceeded in a certain area and then we will task ourselves with validating that. And if we have certain areas that we fell short, then that determines like our action plan for the next week.

Right? So it's like okay, we we fell short in this certain area. Number one, we need to figure out like which reps are dragging down that metric and make sure that those reps receive additional coaching and support. Um we need to make sure that it's tied into our enablement plan. If there's any sort of like operational support for example if like there's something going wrong with our our books of business or or the way our emails are firing, like we certainly need to make sure that we get supported there.

And so I think it's a good way for us to just like start the week with a clean slate and a very clean point of view on the prior week so that we really have our marching orders for the entirety of the coming week. Um I also make sure I start my week meet my week um meeting with my marketing partner to understand like what we have on the docket for the week, how they're planning on supporting my team throughout this week and the next couple of weeks. Um and then by midday all of my managers are expected to deliver a forecast for their team.

And this is something I don't think gets talked about enough because when people talk about forecasting, they're like generally talking about it from an AE perspective. Um but SDR forecasting is like very hardwired into the way that I operate and I think part of that is because I was an AE at one point. Um but I think there is a way to create a predictable model for SDRs so you can understand like hey, like it's the first week of the month but I have a rough idea of where my team is going to land, right?

And so every single one of my managers will put together a forecast based on like how much pipeline the SDRs already generated or how much they're walking into each month with, uh what they what they believe the SDRs is capable of booking throughout the remainder of the month based on what they've done historically, their historic hold rate for demos, their historic conversion rates, things like that. What that allows us to do is get like a really strong perspective on like where we're going to land for the month and like look, if we walk into the beginning of the month and like we don't have like a really good forecast set, that's okay.

We just know that like we have a lot of work to do over the course of the month and we need to figure out a plan to get there. Um I run my one-on-ones with managers midweek. Uh the reason for that is because I want all rep level one-on-ones to be knocked out uh on Mondays and Tuesdays. And so when I meet with my managers on Wednesdays, we should have a point of view on everything that's been discussed in their one-on-ones with reps. And I would say the only thing I've really left out is like we we do a stand-up every week with the reps where our enablement partner is very heavily involved in in kind of helping us take those action items from the WBR and spin them quickly into training items for the following week.

Got it. What other kind of team meetings do you do? So there's the business review it sounds like on Mondays with all your managers. Are there any other team meetings that you do with the managers throughout the week? Sure. So I think one of the things I mentioned before is like I try to keep my managers like very close to the the operational side of the business. Like I I don't like to kind of operate in a silo where I'm off on my own doing all this cross-functional work and the only time my managers find out about what's going on is like after I've already made a decision.

So for example my managers are like very we have a weekly marketing meeting where our director of marketing, our growth partners, um our event marketers are all in this meeting um and my managers are involved in like we're able to provide feedback on what's working, what's not working. The marketers are able to kind of pitch ideas that they're working on. The SDR managers are able to provide feedback. And to me I think that that gets SDR managers involved in a way where they actually feel like they're bought into what's happening and that they [clears throat] can trust that that the marketing team is supporting them.

We also end the week with a staff meeting. So on Friday like we I I things are a little bit chiller on Friday afternoons and so we do an end of day meeting on Fridays, which I know probably feels like a non-traditional time to meet. Um but I think a part of that is because it's like, look, like during the week, you're in the trenches with your reps. You're on the sales floor, listening to calls, you're in one-on-ones, you're walking around the sales floor coaching reps. I I don't like to take managers off the floor.

I actually like to like unblock them as much as I possibly can, but we do cap off the week on on Friday afternoons. Most managers show up with like uh specific things that they need support on. We try to knock those out in in under an hour if we can. Last question related to this, how do you think about how to prioritize your time with the rest of the time outside of these meetings? So, I think a lot of my time I When you say the rest of my time, I mean, I try to actually get involved as much as I can on the ground level with my free time.

So, I'd say if I were to like break out like what my week looks like, a lot of my week is is focused on like cross-functional meetings and like operational work, right? So, making sure that like our books of business are set up in the in a way that can best support the segments and and the product lines that that my team is supporting, making sure, as we discussed before, that like marketing is supporting us in the best way possible, making sure that the enablement plan is supporting sort of the gaps in our business.

Um but [clears throat] I do actually try to get pretty heavily involved. Like I we we run a call blocks twice a day. I try to listen to those live. I actually try to spend 2 hours a day listening to to calls live if I can. Yeah, so you you want to be like really in tune with what's with the rep and what they're experiencing. That's correct, because I think like there are certain challenges that like you can only unpack so much by looking at data. And like you actually need to hear what's happening in real time.

And sometimes like I can just spend an hour listening to calls, and I can understand like there's there there are clear things that we need to change in our call scripts. Right? So, the managers and I will get together after a call block, and it's like, "Hey, we're hearing this time and time again, and we're hearing this objection over and over again." And this is not something that we heard a month ago. So, it's like I I feel like the one of the best ways I can spend my time is actually on the sales floor.

Um but a lot of my time right now is I'm managing two different product teams, so a lot of that time is spent on cross-functional meetings with different cross-functional partners for both of those teams. But, I don't think it's a one-size-fits-all thing for for directors. Like I I do think that like every director needs to stay as close to the business as they possibly can. Love it. Uh dude, this has been great. There's so many great nuggets. I love the Patrick Lencioni quote about first team versus second team.

Um the go and see like the Rippling way, like one of your core principles. Love that, man. I I love the data-backed like exhaustive approach was really nice. And then to cap it off, I I love like hey, at the end of the day, in SDR function, we're primarily making calls, setting meetings from those calls. Like I need to be really in tune with what like what's happening there. I cannot forget about that. Um where can people go to connect with you? Rippling is an awesome company. I recommend it a lot to any reps, you know, looking for a great places to work.

But, where can people go to learn more about Rippling? Are you guys hiring right now? If so, where can people find out? All of that good stuff, man. Sure. So, uh we are almost always hiring with our especially within our SDR function. Though, we are hiring across all sales teams. Uh people can find me on LinkedIn, Brett Brocoff, if they want to shoot me a request. Uh I think what's great about Rippling is like we we just never stop hiring. That's because we always have like we have such an innovative product um that there are new product lines that pop up all the time, new verticals that pop up all the time that we start to to move into.

There are certain segments that we hadn't been able to sell into before, like size segments that we've expanded into. And so, that's a big reason why our SDR team is growing so much. It's not because we're just like trying to like brute-force grow. It's because we actually have like really unique opportunities to grow as a business. And so, yeah, like I encourage people to apply for SDR roles. We are hiring SDR managers. Uh and and those teams are in New York, uh Austin, and San Francisco, but we also global roles open as well.

We have SDRs all across the globe, Dublin, Australia. Um I can't remember every office off the top of my head, but we are we are always hiring SDRs. >> [music]
