# This Conversation Changed How I Think About Outbound Forever | Muffins with Morgan

**Expert:** Morgan J Ingram

**Rank:** 2

**Metadata Score:** 67

**Published:** 2026-03-28

**Duration:** 00:59:52

**Views:** 145

**Likes:** 4

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-C1nL7mr6YA

---

# Transcript

Okay, welcome back everybody to a muffins with Morgan. Um, I have a muffin today. Britney also brought a muffin too, so we're ready to go. We're ready to go with the muffins. Um, this this is a blueberry muffin, but it doesn't it kind of doesn't look like one. So, I don't I don't know what I'm going to get today. I'm going be honest. I went somewhere else to get my muffin because the other place was closed. So, we're we're going to see what this is about. But uh in the chat as you all come in, we'll give it about you know 2 minutes because I know people are coming from call to call.

Uh let us know where are you tuning in from today. And then also let us know uh if you have been on other Muffins with Morgan before. If this is your third time, second time or first time, let us know in the chat. But we will start off asking people where are you tuning in from? Where are you at? Uh Bernie, where are you tuning in from? Where you at? >> Yeah, good question. I'm in Seattle. Uh, it's been so mild from a winter perspective, which I kind of love. I don't love all the rain. Um, but it's almost spring and I cannot wait.

>> I feel that. I feel that. Well, it's like the opposite here cuz I'm in Arizona. >> So, now I'm getting I'm getting Yeah, Rick knows I'm getting nervous now cuz it's like 102. >> Yeah. I feel like you guys are getting a heat wave early and I used to live in Phoenix so I know how much that gets that gets insane real fast. >> Yeah. I mean the thing is like there are worse things in life but at the same time I'm like okay it's getting it's getting hot early. I'm like uh oh here we go. Uh >> Florida I can't do the humidity.

Don't ask me to move anywhere where there's humidity. The last place I was at was DC and it was just not I can't and I know that's nothing compared to Florida. I just don't can't do it. >> Yeah. I um born and raised Atlanta so I'm the same. The humidity is absolutely terrible. Uh for those of you who live out I mean West Palm, you know, I just couldn't do it. So now when I'm out here and it's like 95 degrees and it's dry heat, it's like chill. Like I'm cool with it. I'm like I'm fine. >> Yeah. >> I'll be all right.

I can't. However, I used to be fine. I used to climb Camelback Mountain at like 115 degrees. No big deal. However, now that I don't live there anymore, I realize that you really do acclimate to it. Last summer, I went I was like, it's not going to be a big deal. I got my butt handed to me. It was so hot. I was dying. And I don't usually complain, but oh my gosh, I just can't I can't do the summer heat. It's wild. It's wild. Ma Hey, shout out to Mesa. Um, yeah, I've been to Mesa multiple multiple times.

Uh, but yeah, it's the weather is the weather, but I appreciate everybody uh coming in here. Uh, we appreciate your time. Uh, we'll get started here. I know today, what what is the topic? What what are we discussing? So Brady and I have had like multiple conversations and one thing that we've been talking about often is how everything I mean you all know is like completely different than obviously was in the past. There's more AI. It's more difficult to get in front of people. It's more difficult to get them to respond, right?

It's just harder. And so because of that, I wanted to bring Britney on because she is a sales leader. She has sales experience. She's been a sales rep. and I wanted to talk to her about like what she's seeing with the teams that she's worked with. Uh what she actually replies to in the in the DMs. So, what I'm going to ask for you all today for everyone to hear is to ask questions. I want this to be very conversational today. If you've been here before, like that's what we do. Uh just keep it very conversational.

But today, really ask your questions because you have someone here that is a leader and gets on my assumption probably hundreds of sales messages a week. So, this is the time to ask questions. we can ask questions amongst ourselves as sellers, but if you have a leader in the room, this is where you need to ask questions on like what do you actually respond to? Uh, and that's what we're going to talk about today. So, without any further ado, let's get into it. And the thing that I'm really going to be diving into today is not only like how we can think about outbound differently, but also how can we think about sales differently as well.

Um, but what I'll do is I'll hand it off to Britney to introduce herself. Uh we already know where she's tuning in from, but also Britney if you want to give us a fun fact and we'll get into it. >> Yeah, absolutely. So uh I'm Britney Belli just like TCO last week. Uh he is the only one. I am also the only Britney Belli in the world. So if you go look for Britney Blli on any social media, it'll be me. Um at least my last name now is easy to say. My last name was Frybo. Impossible to spell and pronounce if you weren't German.

Um, but I'm a VP of global sales. I love operationalizing as much of the sales experience as possible. I did that as a sales leader. Um, and doing that more from a revenue architecture piece of it at these days. Um, and so really excited to dig in to think about how we help and support our sales teams into the future. I'm one of those people that likes to think five to seven steps ahead. So, why are we trying to solve for 2026 when we should really be solving for 2030? Um, fun fact, and I'm going to age myself, but it's my favorite fun fact.

I lived in Germany when the Berlin Wall fell. So, uh, >> wow. >> Those to whoever knows what year that was. Um, but I do, when it was not illegal, have a piece of the Berlin Wall. Um, and when I went back, I was young, obviously, but when I went back, it was just one of those really incredible things that you uh I was there when I was 4 to 7. You don't think you remember much. Um, nope, not ' 86. Um, but uh it it was really cool how much I remembered. Um, H Highleberg was one of my favorite places that like the castle and the grass and like it was just I loved it.

Wow. My favorite place ever. Uh, is it 89? So, I put 89. >> 89. It's 89. >> Shout out to Thomas. Uh, we we have no prize for you except congratulations. >> Yeah. Congrats. >> Go get yourself a muffin on us. Congrats, Thomas. Um, that is an incredible incredible experience. I I went to Berlin for the first time for the Euro Cup. >> All right. And I went to the they were playing in the the coliseum. >> Yep. >> That was like the most incredible experience ever. I was like I actually ruined because I I really don't enjoy live sports anymore because I saw the Euro Cup.

I don't been to the Euro Cup in chat but like >> Yeah. >> So >> there's nothing like live sports in Europe and especially in Germany. It's just it's anything in Germany is just on another level. I mean, I I'm not a super hardcore partyier, but man, I'll go and do anything and experience anything. And I luckily had a um a local friend because you will get treated differently as a local versus a tourist. And they got texted that there was a party happening under a random bridge at East Berlin and we ended up going.

It was it was a dance party like and we had to, you know, we had to scatter when the police came up. Like, how crazy is that? I don't do [ __ ] like that. Uh, I don't know if I can swear, but um it's uh it Yeah, I just love Germany so much and Berlin for sure. >> Wow, that's awesome. Thank you for sharing that. Yeah, I'm now reflecting on the Euro Cup. If y'all have not been to the Euro Cup, we're going to get into the material, I promise. But if you've not been to the Euro Cup, you should absolutely go.

Uh it is the most incredible experience ever. And just as Britney said, Germany, Berlin, that area is so cool. Like there's so many uh historic things you can go check out. uh 2028 Euro Cup. If you're gonna go, I'll see you there. I'll see you there. I'm already bought in already got everything. I'm already locked in >> because there's so much history and castles and things and I you lived in Phoenix or Arizona and I think it was 2012 or 2013, but they had their centennial then around then, like 100 years old Arizona.

Um Germany would laugh at that. Um so It's just it's interesting interesting times. Uh thank you for sharing Britney. So uh if this is your first time or you've been a supporter for a long time. Uh I'm Morgan Ingram. I have 10 years a decade of experience in outbound. I started off as an SDR. I've been an STR manager. Some of you in here probably follow John Barrows. I used to work there as a full-time trainer. So that's where all my experience is coming from. Uh now I run a company called Ampocial.

Our main focus is making sales more human in the AI world. So the stuff that you've seen us talk about in these muffins and Morgans uh around video prospecting, cold calling, conversational skills, in-person relationships, I go inside of B2B companies and help BDR and AE teams get better at conversational skills so they can book more meetings. So we got Britney here today. We're going to talk about outbound. And before we do that, there's two things. One is I know you're going to ask. You will get the recording after.

Uh there will be an email that'll be sent after this. If for some reason sometimes people don't get it because it's in spam or whatever, just hit me up and ask for it and we'll send it to you. But you will get the recording. And then also as we're hanging here, we got to know who's actually in the room today. So, uh I'm going to throw up a poll and we're going to see what roles are we looking at today and what's going on. Uh please everyone answer this poll because we want to make sure that we tailor the conversation towards you based on the role that you're in.

All right. So this is incredibly important that you fill this out so we can tailor it towards you. So the first the first thing that I want to ask you Britney and again y'all like this is the time to ask questions. We're going to dive into some strategies and some things that we're seeing. So far as I'm looking at this poll, most of the people in this room are a you got AES SDRs and sales leaders in the room. So all of you right now are most likely trying to outbound and get more meetings. Now when it comes to outbound in the chat, how do you all currently feel about it?

This is a safe space so you can answer answer honestly. Uh because if you say, "Oh, everything's great." Great. Like I'm I'm going to kind of look at you as a side eye to be honest with you. But like answer honestly like how do you feel about outbound right now? Are you like I feel like this is the worst thing ever. Like I'm starting to get a hang of it. I don't know where to go. Like let's have an honest conversation around where people are at. Um and Britney I'm going to ask you how are you feeling about outbound today versus maybe say in 2016?

Uh what are the differences? What are things that people should maybe be hopeful for? I don't want it to be a doom and gloom, but like what is your current take on outbound? I know we talked a lot about this behind the scenes, so let's bring it to life. >> I mean, it's so funny. How do you feel about outbound? I a lot of people feel like it's dying. And it is absolutely different than what it was in 2016. And I think the hard part for SCRs and AEES is they likely have leaders who were really successful in outbound 10 years ago, even 5 years ago.

And it's just so different. It does not work the same way. I used to send out a thousand emails and I build a, you know, an opportunity book of over a million bucks. Like easy. No big deal. >> Um, it wasn't that easy, but it still worked. Now, every single one of those are going to go to spam. You likely will get zero replies if you send out a thousand. Um, and so you just have to be more creative and the world is going to change. And so you just have to think again, you know, five, 10 steps ahead.

How are buyers changing? Where are they at? Where are they getting all of their information? Where do they feel like they trust the information that's coming to them? And who are you as an AE or an STR in what you're sharing? I mean, if I had some random person reaching out to me and it looks like it's hi, I'm not going to respond. I really do seriously get tens if not hundreds a day and I will look and see like all of the different messages in LinkedIn. I get kind of backed up every once in a while, but um those that look like they actually want to have a real conversation with me rather than it's for business or it's for a very specific kind of angle, I just am not going to respond to it.

I just don't have time. Um, but if somebody wants coaching or wants my opinion or wants to understand how do you feel about this thing? Shoot, I'll get on a call any day and you probably if you are going to try to sell me on something, if you get me on a call to ask for my opinion or to ask for my feedback and then somehow change me, good for you. That's that's the angle that you have to do these days. It's not the same as 2016. Um, >> no, >> it shouldn't be because otherwise everybody else would do sales.

Sales is hard. Not it. >> I I want to I want to call some people. Um, Joseline, I believe you're saying your name right. I mean, this is this is how most people I work with how they feel right now when we run them through our sales team six program. Lots of character building. And I'll be real, even for even for me, it's character building because like I'm like, "Oh, this worked like three years ago." And I'm like, "I can't do that anymore." So, I've even tried to been like, okay, I have to think about things differently if I'm being transparent because like it's like not the same.

But it's not to say that like it's not possible cuz it is. I think it's just like not the same. So, carrots are building, Jim saying harder and harder. Sam saying he's trying to get over the hump of of video outbound. Sam, talk to us more about that. What over the hump? Like just doing it like what's going on there. Um, we have no one likes getting a cold call. People never did, but seems like no one does yet. Jacob, it's pretty interesting. Like I feel like it's also the data is harder because people are now hybrid.

They're not in the office as much. So you it's harder to catch people and that's just the reality. But I think yeah, people are resistant to just I think people are just resistant to conversations in general now. Like people just don't want to talk. Um so let's dive into that. So let's talk to everyone right now in the chat. I'm going to ask you all uh if you had I know we said it's tough and difficult but you're still doing your job. So what is the channel that you're getting the most meetings on right now in the chat?

Let us know. And Britney, I want to ask you because you just brought it up. Uh we were talking about how there is a lot of AI slop and it's very difficult and you're getting a lot of messages. So, let's just say in the past 12 months when you actually have responded or you've liked the message, what did what did they do differently than everyone else? And then how can you tell when someone has done an AI message? >> Yeah, I mean the tells are there the tells can be pretty easy. If you've got M dashes in there, like I'm automatically going to delete it.

Um I think some have started being more like themselves and being more casual. If it's like super super casual, it's like I don't I don't think you are serious enough to actually talk to me. So there's this fine line between being formal and being way too casual. Um that you have to at least for me and this is my perspective, my opinion, everybody is different. I like what Jacob said where he's like it depends on the ICP. Every salesperson is getting hit up a bajillion times every single day. But I have found that if I want to go talk to somebody in product or if I want to go talk to somebody in legal or someone outside of your like normal goto market team like sales and marketing, they'll pick up the phone.

I've talked to so many CPOS recently like they all want to pick they're like sure you want to talk to me. Um, so if you think about the different types of people you want to reach out to and and that's that's a big big thing. Now when it comes to AI, I think a big part of it is how formalized does it look? Like does it look super robotic? But also if you just want to sell me something like it is just buyers are so much more informed, so much more aware. I probably know a lot about your like sometimes honestly even more than a lot of the SDRs that I've chatted with and it's because like I am super inundated in AI and every big sales product right now has AI.

Now, um, if somebody wants to reach out to me and say, "Hey, I've seen you've been a successful sales leader." Like, I would love to get your take on like how are you talking to this type of persona or how are you thinking about outbound differently now? I will take that call every time. I love coaching. In fact, I was talking to Morgan before this about a conversation I had yesterday with someone who is a first-time sales leader, and she's like, "I was a really successful enterprise person, but I have no idea what I'm doing as a frontline high velocity salesperson." Um, I'll take that call every day.

Um, so and that's what I was saying earlier is if you can get into someone's motivations and what they enjoy and what you can tell they're posting on LinkedIn or on a podcast or something else, you can really get to understand that. And we've got LLM's like you could probably go and ask about certain people like um certain executives because you got to go high. Don't don't go super low, especially if you're trying to um get to somebody. They're all human. But you can go and ask, you know, what is their personality based on what I'm seeing on this LinkedIn page, based on what you can find in podcasts and how they speak to hosts, like what do you think they would be motivated by?

And that gives you it's such an easy question to ask an like any LLM. I would say Claude is the best. Um, so if you are willing to go there, go there. But any of them will likely work. and then tailor your message based on that because you're getting to the heart of the human. And because AI is so prevalent, it's it's like robots everywhere. If you want to be human, which is your unique characteristic about you, >> um that's where people are going to respond so much more than if you just, you know, let superhuman write all your content.

>> So, I want to I want to highlight one thing that you said there. I think that's very important is when you all use AI and I'm also not anti-AII, but I've been thinking about this a lot as of late is I think that it's easy to use AI for 20 different things and it then it does nothing. So I think that what you just said there Britney that I high want to highlight for everyone is use AI to then look at maybe execs that have had interviews and then pull out those you know things that can be unique.

Obviously everyone you go after isn't going to have that though. If you can go inside AI and say, "Hey, here are the people that I'm looking to get in front of. Can you show me these, you know, three to five things?" I think that will be huge in terms of getting the right insights information. Now, I want to go into what Melody said here, and she was like, "Hey, I have the best open rates when with asking AI to add humor." Um, but still no responses. So, I I really like that method that Melody has, but actually that kind of leads into my point, which is like, okay, what if someone doesn't post?

What if someone has no content? What if they have no interviews, right? I know maybe some people in here, you probably go after like CISOs or data or CTO's and like it's just like nothing's happening, it's not working. So if that's the case right and nothing is happening and it's not working then the question becomes what do we do right so what what messaging or what or not even messaging how should people be thinking about reaching out to people if they cannot find that >> um yeah procurement procurement is a whole another breed of human >> they are >> they're my favorite because if I can win them over then like I've dominated.

Like that's my like check plus like you're you're doing great. >> Um but I would say take a a note out of John Barrow's cab. He used to have and I'm sure he has something like it a spreadsheet that he would build every single year around what motivates a CEO and what motivates a CTO in these different type of industries. and if they don't have that type of content, there is plenty of content out there that um from reputable sources. So, I always make sure if you're going to do any research on AI, you say reputable sources, otherwise it'll just pull any random [ __ ] that it'll, you know, it can find.

But what are the biggest challenges that a CTO or procurement or someone else is dealing with right now? what are they probably trying to solve for this year for the next five years and get highle information and you know something that I used to find helpful is hey and you can't say it like this because I feel like that's everybody uses it like this but it's like hey I was talking with so and so person the other day and they were saying that this is an opportunity or an experience or a problem they're trying to solve um is that something you're trying to solve too And ultimately the and for me this is how I would ask it.

And ultimately the reason I'm asking you is I'm just trying to pull a a few different people uh that I respect or see in the market that likely have a voice or likely have an opinion. I'd love to get your opinion. Did I say anything about the company that I work for or did I say any pitch about, you know, what I want to really get out of the call? Absolutely not. If you share anything that is inkling of salesy, you're you will get sniffed out immediately. And if you really do want a conversation with those people, the way that I have found the most success is through the networking piece.

It's through different um conversations that are really human because people are are looking for human connection and yes, it does not scale. So, yes, you have to make sure that you're trying to reach out to the right people. Um, but that is that is truly um that is truly the way to get to the right people. And you obviously don't want to do it to people that are below the line. You want to do it to people above the line because at the end of the day, those are the people that are going to make the decisions.

Um, but the more that you ask for their opinion, their feedback, um, you could say, "Hey, I've been doing a lot of research on procurement, and this is the thing that I'm finding is the most relevant topic to them. Like, would you agree?" And I and I would even say, "I have no other um uh, you know, side thoughts on this or I'm not really I'm literally not trying to sell you. I just want your opinion." Um because at the end of the day, if you have that conversation and they start to build trust, that's the biggest thing is trust because trust is >> and if you can build that trust, maybe you can then turn that conversation into potentially a sales conversation, but otherwise it it's practically impossible.

>> So, let's talk about that. Um we were, you know, Jacob said, how do you convert those commas into meetings and deals? I I want to actually well that's the let's dive into the question because I have a followup to something different but like let's stay where we're at. So Jacob asked how do you convert those combos to into meetings and deals. We'll go from there. >> Well, it's that one is so fun because I'll just say, "Hey, this is some of the information I'm thinking of right now. I'd love to just spitball with you or I'd love to learn more from you." And I'll even like be super transparent and really vulnerable and just say, "Hey, I've been in sales and I've been in sales leadership for a really long time, but I only know what I know." And I would love to understand your side of the house.

Like, I would love to understand what obstacles you're running into and what is the [ __ ] you have to deal with. And honestly, I'm sure you hate sales. Like, we all hate sales people >> in some way, shape, or form. So, like, >> I just want to be a partner to those type of people that I'll be working with in the future. and I'd love to get your take. And especially if you just share with people that you want their opinion and it really is all about them and making them, you know, feel like they are the coolest thing that's ever happened.

You'll get those calls. I I get them all the time. I probably get them eight out of 10 times. Now, I understand that I have a decent presence. Not clearly not like Morgan, but I've got a decent presence on LinkedIn. I share content. like I've been around the block. So, there is a difference between um someone with experience versus someone who's an SDR, but you can have a presence. It doesn't matter what where you've been and what your experience is. Um you could say, "Hey, I'm just getting into sales.

I don't know what I want to do and if I want to get into this or if I'm, you know, maybe more interested in product. I'd love to understand your journey and your experience." And I bet you you will get those calls almost every single time. truly. And it sounds silly and it doesn't sound salesy, but that's why you'll get those calls. >> Jacob, follow up on you. Did that help answer your question? If it did not, you can follow up in here as well. And everybody else, continuously throw in your questions here.

I I want to take what you said earlier. Uh Britney, as well around like use leveraging your internal people. I know we talked about this behind the scenes on we talked about um the F1 and how I don't know if anyone also I haven't seen was I think Brad Pitt's in it. I haven't seen the F have you seen it? >> Have not and I really >> it's an elite movie. I don't know if y'all seen in the chat but like everyone told me it's a great movie. I need to see it. So like it's on the list. But anyways, my point is is that if you have heard F1 or you've watched the movie or you you've been to it, whatever, uh they obviously there's a they have a support team, right?

They have all these people that make sure that the movie, right, or not the movie, that the the car is being efficient. And one thing I've seen in the work I've done with especially AE teams, SDRs can still leverage this, but AE teams when we go in and do our sales team 6 program, what I've seen is that like yes, there's obviously ways to reach out cold. But we all know it's just harder and tougher due to trust. And I think people just trust things less for an array of different reasons. We could go into that, but we know there's a lot of reasons why.

So leveraging customers, internal execs, and getting referrals is key. So Britney, I kind of want to flip that to you. Is when we think about the F1 concept, when we think about even outbound, uh I don't think outbound is is just cold. It's like I'm just outbounding to get a meeting, so I do that however I need to. So for people that are in the room that are leaders, AEES, even to a level SDRs, what would you give them advice on to start thinking about referrals and how to leverage people internally to book meetings because I don't think this is done enough.

>> Oh, I I would agree and I don't think that people did it enough even 10 years ago. Um, and I could take this in two different ways. So, you've got your F1 team. You could be the best driver that there ever was, but if you don't have your techs and your tire changers and your all, you know, I cannot even pretend to know that I know anything about cars. But, um, isn't this right? Yes. Um, if you don't have all the people, your whole entire army to help make sure that you are the leading F1 racing champion, you're not going anywhere.

you're just going to stay on the track moving nowhere. It's the very same thing in sales. And so the the interesting thing about that is you've got to build your army internally and externally. And if you don't, you're not going to get anywhere. Now, in relation to the networking piece of it, there are companies like Orb OBB that essentially are building a way for you to understand like what's the warmest way to get to someone. And I think the more that you think about your network and build that network and build those relationships externally, you're going to find that is honestly the strongest network or the strongest um opportunity.

And there's actually uh I believe research um from this Scott Lease has definitely talked a lot about it um where if you get that warm connection from someone that you know, those opportunities are stickier. they will grow faster and they will stay longer because you have this this like innate um relationship with somebody and if you just go and you know talk to some Joe Schmo somewhere and you get that deal great but there's not any skin in the game and so um now we're all going to go do that so I you know shade there but you are building that network and you you are intentionally also making sure that you're not just taking you're not just asking always hey can you connect me here?

Can you connect me here? Cuz that gets that gets boring and obnoxious because we don't have time to always connect. But if you're all if you're giving something back to people, that network is is definitely going to help you um not only in just your own knowledge and your own success, but hopefully you then can, you know, pay that back and and help someone else be successful too. So from a a F1 racing team to just being knowledgeable and I always talked about it as a sales leader like go build your army like and I would say that internally go find people in product, go find people on the engineering side, go find people in marketing and go have those conversations with them because I actually used to get insider information as a frontline leader before some of the other executives.

because I was super close with lots of different people. Um, and I was just real with them and I just wanted to understand like what my favorite question, what is the most annoying thing about sales people? And they always laugh and I love that because someone here was also saying they add humor. Um, but I'm like but truly because for me my motivation, my intention is I don't want to be that person. And if I ask them a question that you know there's there's a Slack channel somewhere that's like the stupid [ __ ] sales people do.

You know it's there. >> Yeah. >> You can lean into it. >> Um you're going to build these like even internal champions that will help you be successful. And I found a lot of success with leaning on people that were not your normal people to lean on. But they I had product and this was a 5,000 person company. like I had no business as an AE talking to somebody that was like our CPO, but then again, I did because I was curious and they gave me the time. Um, and that's the thing I would tell all of you, no matter what level you are or how new you are in sales, like be curious and be authentically you.

And man, it it doesn't matter what title it is. They'll give you time if you are asking authentically for their opinion and their feedback or you know even just flippantly saying what is the thing that annoys you the most because I want to make sure I don't do that. >> Yeah. No, I mean that I I absolutely love that and we're at it's crazy because we're already at the halfway mark and uh at this point I we always ask like has this been helpful and impactful for you so far? Let us know in the chat if anything you're hearing so far you have questions on.

Now also again is the time to ask those questions. Put them in the chat or the Q&A. But let us know if this has been helpful. And I think there should be more uh roundts around asking buyers on like what they find helpful or what they you know maybe receiving like hey like how can I stand out? I think those are really, really good questions to be asking buyers so that you know how to show up and do what you need to do at the end of the day. >> Yeah. And I hope somebody says that no, this is not helpful.

Like I want you to go deeper. Like somebody like somebody just give it to us. Um or if we are just like the best there ever was, then damn, we've done our job. >> But I know someone out there is like, well, no, give challenge us. I I welcome any uh opinions. Um, and so you talk about, um, what are some other ways to build trust with prospects, especially the cold outbound? Um, the networking piece is huge. Being authentically you is another I love the little thumbs up. >> Yeah. >> And I know people say that all the time, but I still get squirreled by it.

Um, I What are some other ways like show up where they show up? I mean, there's lots of different things, especially postcoid, where people are having conversations with others and um executives or CPOS or like they're getting together in these small little groups of people. Um I just went to a AI tinkerers um meeting here in Seattle and I I really had no business being there. I I I am dangerous as a salesperson in AI, but I am not dangerous in coding and anything else. But dang, it was really cool to see how people are thinking about it and how they're, you know, whatever.

>> Yeah. will show up where the type of persona is even if you have no reason to be there except to learn and go soak it up because then you can authentically have again a conversation with those people like hey I was actually just at this thing where I got to learn a lot about what your type your peers are going through like and that just builds so much trust and don't use m dashes don't reach out 700 times I've got some like LinkedIn messages like this is my 10th time I'm reaching out to you like are you not you know are you too busy to talk to me and all they want to say is yes so >> I want you um >> the other that I have seen these really cool videos that people have shared and sometimes the videos come off as like it's obviously a sales video.

Um, I do love when someone gives me a little bit of a synopsis in reading, like in the writing before or after the video because I want to know like what am I getting into in the next 30 seconds. If it's a sales pitch, I'm not going for it. But if it's like if it's somebody's opinion or someone's um view on something, maybe it's about their product, maybe it's not, like I'll dig into that. So again, it's the trust built is just don't be so damn salesy. Like we used to be so salesy and people just would take that hook line and sinker and I know that you are probably a bit between a a rock and a hard place because so many sales leaders had success 10 years ago and those are the people leading companies right now that are really pushing and are like where's your outbound?

Where are the conversion rates? Like what the hell are y'all doing? And um I think that can definitely be a hard place to be, but being very aware that the world is so different, but still not making it an excuse that like it's just it's dying like it's not there and then not calling it. Can't do that. You got to be creative and share the creative wins. You also build trust with your team's internally. >> So we got some questions in asking examples. those unique ways. Uh I'll share my screen on like just kind of tactically what Britney is talking about and just how y'all can think about it.

Uh I will say like obviously at the end of the day like there's going to be there's going to be different ways on how you want to approach this. But I'm l just going to share what I literally did what was this Monday. So this week this didn't lead into a meeting. There's another one that did. But I just want y'all to see both examples to like just get you to think. I'm not saying that you need to do like 50,000 voice notes a day or things of that nature, but the way that and what Britney's articulating is just thinking about how you want to approach it.

Um, but I'm going to show this example and then I'll explain like why you should think this way. So, the thing that I've been doing as of late, I'll share my screen real quick. Hold on. I don't want it to do that. Um, all right. So, uh, all right, cool. So, I'm gonna pull up this right here. I'll pull up James. And this didn't lead to a meeting, but like and I can play it out loud, whatever. But my point is that I'm going to show you this is that I've been trying something different. And Britney can also say like this is a terrible way of doing things, which is fine.

We're having a conversation. But the way I've been doing things as of late is uh this is a longer voice note than what I normally do if I'm being honest. But what I'm now doing is this voice message, and I'll play it in a minute. I just want y'all to just listen, hear me out real quick. The voice messages and how I lead it is I point something out that is like personal to them that is like that's real. So, for example, James lives in Denver. In a couple weeks, I'm gonna go see Whiz Khalifa at Red Rocks, >> which I'm so excited about.

>> Awesome. >> It's gonna be incredible. So, shout out if you're a WH Click fan. So, I started out the voice note like like that being like, "Hey, James, the reason for my voice note, actually, no, real quick, something I want to tell you. I'm coming to Denver in a couple weeks. I'm going to Red Rocks." And that's why you see Whiz Clifford there. I'm going to Red Rocks and like it's going to be a great time. Anyways, like and then I went into the reason. Um, and I did go into, you could say it was a pitch, but the way I do pitches is I just treat it as if I was like talking to you being like, "Hey, here's something I'm seeing.

uh here's a couple things I'm seeing in your business. Like I don't even know if this is even relevant, but like if it is, let's chat. So like I'm basically what I do is I take pressure away from the situation. Like I'm still saying like what Britney's talking about being like we should talk about it, but also like I'm not pressed about it. Like I think that's the thing that I think everyone here you have to think about is it's different where it's like before you could literally just be like I want to meet, I want to meet, I want to meet and like it would work.

Now I'm just like, "Hey, here's something I'm seeing. I think I think we could meet, but I don't I mean, I don't know." Like, and so I'm taking pressure off of the situation uh when I do this. So, I I'll play this out loud. >> Oh, you're also being vulnerable like you're you're hedging like you're you're pulling back in the sense of like, "Hey, if I did a shitty job here, then just let me know." And it's okay to tell me that that's the case. And I think people appreciate if you act vulnerable because people just aren't that way at all um anymore.

And so I think that's another it's one of those tactics that works really well is like hey tell me about your feedback. I really do want your feedback. It's why I you know after you said it's the halfway mark like I really do actually want your real feedback. Like I know people say that but if this is not landing like please tell me so I can shift in the in the moment. And I think when you give people that and I know I've said it a million times being authentic, but if you give people a real vibe about really wanting their feedback and you sort of just like hand it to them like hey if the job like let me know.

I think people respond to that too. >> 100%. So let's see if it's uh this >> James reason for my >> Can y'all hear that? >> Yeah. All right. All right, everybody else. Cool. One person's like, I can't hear. Okay, thumbs up. So, I see. Okay, so this this is what I did live. We'll we'll see what I talked about. >> Voice note is I believe we interacted with each other when I came into Sumo Logic years ago. So, looks like you are now the director. So, congratulations to you. And also, I'm coming to Denver out in the next couple weeks.

I'm going to see Whis Cle at the Red Rocks. So, super random I thought I share if you're going to that. Uh but the real reason I'm reaching out is I was just doing some you know browsing on sales nav and looks like that you are bringing in a new manager over the team and typically when I see people bringing in a new manager that means that the team is going to grow even more and as the team grows you're probably looking for creative ways to break through the noise and get into accounts. I've been working with people on a 45day program because I've seen a lot of people running up against obstacles on how do we leverage LinkedIn?

How do we get our people on the phones more? That's what I call helped do to increase reply rates. So curious if you open a conversation about that. If not completely cool, please thought I asked. >> All right. So Brandon, >> would you No, you can't just say like would you actually respond to that? Everybody chat. Um I'll tell you why. Um what I love about it is that you're so real and you're just being you and you giggle when you're like I'm going to be at Red Rocks. Like you're not just like and I'm going to be at Red Rocks.

Cool. like you just you were just being you and I really love that. Um and to me I probably respond like hey I'm trying to figure out what's going on within my own team but yes we are expanding so like good on you for doing the right research. Um I'd probably say hey I'd love to learn a little bit more about like what are you doing? So, I'd respond in that sense. And I think it was agent that somebody and I don't have the chat up, so I'm just going to spitball, but someone said or mentioned that they get really awkward in having these non sales pitchy like messages.

If you feel it's awkward, it's awkward and call it out. Hey, um, this is AJ. Like, I'm sure this is awkward. It's awkward for me, too, but I'm reaching out because XYZ. just call like like I was saying with uh Morgan earlier around, you know, just calling out, hey, did that work or did that not? Just like call it like it is. And I used to do that with sales people, too, where I could hear if they were aligned with me or they won't. And I would just like I'd say, "Hey, like I just want to roll back the conversation really quickly.

I'm perceiving and I'm picking up that something isn't landing." And I do this when people were either like feisty with me or it felt like they were not walking the path with me. >> I just call it straight up. And that also builds trust because and I would say, "Hey, this is my perception. Here's what I'm picking up." And it feels like to me you're um either you don't trust me or there's some type of, you know, external thing happening here. And I just want to understand because I just person to person, I just want to understand like where where's your head at?

And man, would I like become a therapist in that moment. I've had people that were like, I'm in the middle of a divorce and and or I'm in the middle of like fighting for my job or >> I'm so sorry. I am actually being really fussy with you because I'm like this. I hate salespeople. I'm like, God, I get it. Like I totally get it, >> but like you just call if you can call it out and you notice it. >> Um, >> and take a moment. This is the thing. And take the moment to actually call it out. And I would say nine times out of 10 I was right.

And those one times that I was wrong, I'm like, "Hey man, okay, my perception was wrong. I but I'm glad that we had this conversation and I can, you know, shift my brain somewhere else." Um, they still appreciate that I was trying to notice these like little nuances. um that it really does build trust in that moment. And those were some of the while some of them were some like originally heated conversations, we were able to have more professional conversations pack post that because you just >> No, I love that.

I appreciate you sharing that. And my hope is that's helpful for other people as well, that perspective and that you can take that in the chat. if I have another one. If y'all want to see another voicemail, let us know in the chat. Let me know in the chat. I'm not going to keep sharing voice notes. Nobody even cares. But like I have I've sent a good amount of them. Um but yeah, if any if y'all want more in the chat, just let me know. But I think that's the thing is that like uh it's a it's also like you have to become unbothered.

I don't know the best way to say that. Like I'm very unbothered. like and I'm just like I'm just going to send this out and like if it happens like it's cool and if it doesn't like it is it kind of is what it is. I I don't know how to explain it. That's just how I've become uh that's just how I've become over time. Um, >> I also love that for so different so many different reasons because I used to, especially as a new salesperson, I was looking at and I was at Tableau, so we had dashboards on TV, so I knew exactly where I was, which was at the bottom when I was new.

Um, and I hated that, but I just kept looking at the dashboard. And when I started just and one of our executives was like, "Stop weighing the damn pig. Just feed the pig. If you feed the pig, the pig is going to grow. And I really loved that analogy of like stop looking at I really I literally stopped looking at dashboards even as an executive salesperson. I didn't look at dashboards if I try like if I could. Obviously, I had a forecast so I did have to look at numbers at some point. But >> I just I stopped caring about that and I was putting the energy and intention and the things that I knew that was going to get us to our number.

And that actually helped me be successful because I stopped worrying about weighing the dang thing. And um the more that you shift from that anxiety of like you know caring so much about what people think and caring so much about doing everything right like you obviously need to care and you obviously need to make sure that you are growing and learning but when you take the the chip off your shoulder the edge off and just just go be you and just remember that like you're all very unique and different.

Like don't Yes. sales is like 99% stolen and you know 1% your your flavor but like lean into that 1%. Um so like everything that we're sharing isn't going to land with every single person or every single region or every single you know sales group. Um you just have to find what works for you and what works for your territory and what works for your buyers. Uh and it will shift. I mean it will shift from quarter to quarter, year to year. you just have to keep thinking creatively. Um, that doesn't mean you have to come up with something new every time.

It's make sure you do rinse and repeat and you try new like try those same things maybe multiple times a year because it really just depends on the time of year. But anyway, I'll get off my soap box on that. >> You're good. You're good on that. I mean, but the thing is like whether it's a I think someone asked about the cadence. Um, >> oh yeah, >> depends on what personas you're at, depends on your region. I I mean, I tell people you should do 11 touch points in 20 days, but really what I'm seeing is that like people are not following up enough.

And you also have to set the expect you should set yourself the expectation that like people are busy and even if you send a really good message in the beginning they could completely miss it cuz like maybe they just aren't seeing it. No to agree it could not be relevant. That's fine. But also like you just have to vision that like oh this person just didn't even see what I said. Like um and so like I need to follow up especially if you took the effort to do something. Like if I made a video, it's like I'm probably gonna I'm gonna follow up at least twice in the LinkedIn inbox because I'd made an effort to do something and I also like took the time to do it and I also know it was relevant.

Obviously don't follow up if it was like AI slop. Like that's obvious. But if you took the time to do like a video or voice note, like I feel like it's okay for me to follow up a couple times to see what's going on. >> Yeah, I do like voice notes. And I think that goes back to what someone was saying earlier is like it just feels awkward to do a video. If it's awkward to you, don't do it. Do something different. Um, >> and uh, I had a thought and it just it completely went away from me. But, you know, it's so interesting.

I took we we were one of the first ones at Tableau to lock in on outreach in a a pretty decent way. I think we might have been at the time one of the biggest opportunities for them. and they shared like most people are reaching out five times and we have created uh and have the feedback that you have to reach out like 25 to 30 times. I could never get on board with that and now I'm like oh if you reach out to me 30 times like I'm going to actually block you like >> probably calling the cops like >> don't do that.

But I love Morgan what you said like hey if I do a video or voice note like I'm probably going to reach out you know two or three times like that to me feels right. Don't do it the same day. Don't do it the day after. Like give people a little bit of a moment to you know follow up. I love that it was I think it was a Monday note or a Friday note and you reached out on a Monday or Tuesday. Like that to me feels right. Um because at the end of the day, man, you also are depending on the time of week, depending on the time of the quarter, you have to remember what people are going through.

Like they're not looking for your email. You're hitting them probably in a time where they are busy with something else. If it's end of year, your executives are likely planning for next year. If it's the beginning of the year, they're likely planning for SCO. Um if it's product and they have a release coming up or they have a you know calendar they're probably going through a sprint. Um, so be aware of those type of things too in your outreach. Like, hey, I'm sure you're reach like you're in the middle of SCO or you just came back from SCO and you just need a moment to breathe or >> we're on our way to, you know, the summer and I'm sure you've got lots of plans coming up.

You know, just even those tiny little moments where you're sharing that like, hey, I am aware that I'm reaching out to you in a time that's probably not convenient to you. Um, that also builds trust and that does go a long way. >> 100%. And okay, we have a couple of things going on here. Uh, I believe I believe Steph's in here. Uh, he's on my team. Shout out to Steph. Uh, when you're asking about cold LinkedIn examples that work for me. Uh, I'll be transparent like a lot of stuff I'm doing is not like by product is not cold because I've created content for 10 years.

So, a lot most people might know who I am. So, like I may not be the best example, but I do have another example that I can share. I know other people asked for it and I will share it. Um, but if you're looking for examples from other people, I would go watch Muffins with Morgan episode 1 and two. Uh, those are people who are actually in the trenches sending out messages, sending out uh different things in that nature. They have the follow-up sequences. Like, it's all there. So, the YouTube links will be put in here.

If not, I'll put them in there. But yeah, uh that's what I would go watch and it literally will answer your question and you'll have more than enough information to know what to do with it. For people that saw episode two or one, you can chime in and you can affirm to what I'm saying right now. Uh in terms of like in terms of I think of like being different, I think you just have to have the willingness to like just have fun with it and try and also try different stuff. Like >> next week I'm about to try some like new stuff I haven't done before cuz I'm like okay.

>> But that's I don't know. It's just interesting. I feel like that's when I learned the most. Like I I did the voice notes and videos cuz I realized like my old strategy wasn't working and I was like what do I do? And so I started studying videos and voice notes and it went crazy. So now I'm like all right like a lot of not a lot of people do them but I think people are like I'm so busy I don't have time for this anymore even though it's created. It's like all right cool. So then you have to go look at something different.

I think that's the game though is like continuously always trying out new things, always doing new stuff and always being different. Um so I'll show this example and then we have six minutes left. we'll wrap up and then if anyone has any lasting questions, now is the time to ask them. So, this is one I also did on Monday. Again, I've been like testing out different times and obviously you'll see here that this leads into what we're going to talk about, but just kind of theory reason for the voice note is I wanted to switch it up here, do something different.

Uh, as a sales development leader, I actually was doing some like research into what you're building right now. Looks like you just brought on five different sales development reps within your business. And typically when I see this, it means that your pipeline numbers have increased and you're probably trying to find creative ways to break into your accounts. I recently just worked with the team where they had these new reps in place. I walked them through my outbound system that we do in 45 days and they were able to increase their response rates 30% across the campaigns.

curious to see if you'd be open to chatting about, you know, how we could potentially work together if that's interesting. >> Yeah. >> What I love about that is that you did some research that showed, hey, it looks like you just hired managers. Like you that's that's your that's your like your tell that you're not just coming in without any knowledge. And so, you know, a lot of people are just giving these like, you know, flippant messages. And I love that in both of those messages you shared that you did some research.

Like, you're not just willy-nilly reaching out to him for, you know, no reason. That's that is I think also why I really love those messages. You you're so real and honest and um you can hear it in your voice, but also, hey, I'm reaching out because I did some research and I'm seeing this thing and I think you might need me. Um, and that is being human again. >> What it is, I'm just I'm just chopping it up. I treat as I'm just like chopping it up. I think that's the gist that you'll see for me. Like I'm not like, "Hey, you have to meet with me." It's like I mean like I did some research.

Like it's cool if you want to meet. Like also like it's also chill. >> Yeah. But I also love what you shared earlier and I want everyone in this call to like really sink this into their DNA is that something you're doing today may not work tomorrow. And don't be one of those people that complain that it's just not working and what what we did it just isn't working anymore. Like it drives me up the wall when sales teams or whoever it is it it could be even a a leader. I don't I don't care. But they'll be like, "It just it's not strong enough.

It's not working or it's not this, that, or the other thing." And okay, what are you doing about it? Like, sure, maybe it is different. Um, just be creative. Think outside the box. Go start having conversations with again procurement, CPO. Hey, what were those sales calls that you actually took and why did you take them? Go have that conversation. I bet you you'll actually have more people reaching out to you and then you gain that information you'll use it on the next conversation and if you're asking that person maybe you can switch them into a customer and it's just if you're getting stuck like go ask the question go be curious like if you can be curious and really a student of your own craft that's actually what's going to help you be different because most people are not students of sales and students of the craft and the reason Morgan is so is so great at what he does is that even you and I chatted a few weeks ago like I'm trying all these new things because I just can't keep doing what I what I used to do and instead of him being like yeah I don't like this isn't going to work you know for the long term you're like okay I'm going to try this this and this and it was wildly creative and outside the box and you're likely AB testing it to see what works and what doesn't um go do like everybody on this call go do that uh because it's going to change sales is changing faster than it ever has in the past.

Um, so don't >> Yeah, >> don't be lazy. >> Don't that don't be lazy is this is the sign off. But so we have two minutes left. Uh, Britney, tell us where people can find you if they have more questions or they want to interact with you and engage with you. >> Yeah. Um, you can reach out to me on LinkedIn. Again, I'm Britney Belli. Go connect with me. I love connecting with people. Um, you don't just have to follow. You can go connect. uh I can be a um a potential network warm connection for you in the future.

Um I am again the only Britney Brley. So wherever you find me, Instagram uh which I hardly post anymore, but if you want to look at how awesome my amazing family is, go there or LinkedIn and I do post relatively often there um about my opinions, which sometimes can be pretty sharp. Uh maybe one of my favorite ones is uh stop checking in. really it drives me freaking nuts. Uh, I will immediately delete it. Uh, or that Salesforce is not the future of CRM and I used to work for them. So, you know, I I get a little spicy on LinkedIn.

So, if you want some of that, come on over. >> There you go. Uh, y'all know what it is. Muffins and Morgan. We do this every week. Next, next week we will not be going live on Friday. I'm actually going on family vacation. So, I'll be in New York uh seeing my brother. We're going to watch Broadway, all the fun stuff. And so, but on the 10th, we're April 10th, we're coming back. We're going to be covering Sales Navigator. So, if you're looking to get better at that, that's what we're going to be covering.

And you'll see all that in the emails. Um but as always, we do this we do this on Fridays. As you see, we're getting tactical. We get in the weeds. My hope is that you walked away with one, two, or three things to think about differently or do differently moving forward, which is going to be obviously the key here. And uh as I've mentioned in the voice notes and everything else, if you are a seller, if you're a sales leader and you're like, I want to want to do these things more creatively. I want to stand out.

I want to get more meetings. I want to be different. That's what we're doing over here at Ampocial with Sales Team 6, working with SDR and AE teams on a 4 to 5day program, helping them break through the noise and through different meetings and stuff. So, if that's interesting, hit me up on LinkedIn. Regardless, we will be back. Hope youall had a fantastic time and we'll see you on the next one.
