# The New Way to Do LinkedIn Outbound in 2026

**Expert:** Morgan J Ingram

**Rank:** 10

**Metadata Score:** 50

**Published:** 2026-05-04

**Duration:** 00:55:10

**Views:** 209

**Likes:** 5

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TTPyth2jrcQ

---

# Transcript

Hey, what's going on everybody? Welcome to another Muffins with Morgan. Uh, it's where we talk about sales. I eat muffins. I got the strawberry muffins back from Costco. So, I'm still I'm still holding this down because these muffins are actually really really good. So, uh, I'm sticking to them. But, we have Nelly here today and we're going to talk about LinkedIn. Uh, y'all's favorite topic. We've gotten so many questions around. You wanted more of that. you wanted to talk about it more and dive into it more and so here we are.

So, as everybody comes in, we'll give it a minute and let us know where are you tuning in from today, what's going on your world, if you got any fun things to share, maybe got some fun facts, some cool closes to the end of the month and end of the quarter. But as you come in, let us know where you're tuning in from so everybody can see where you're at. Uh, and then also as well, we'll throw it to you, Nelly, where are you tuning from? >> I'm tuning in from Denver, Colorado. >> Awesome. Awesome. Are you a skier, snowboarder, or neither?

>> Um, I grew up skiing, but that's in upstate New York, so pretty much on a hill of ice. Um, I've skied a couple times here in Colorado. There's just a lot of work that goes into it. >> Yeah, I've I've heard like I I have not done skiing or snow snowboarding yet, but I heard that there's you got to put in some work to get it done. >> Yeah. also expensive, but it's fun. >> So, shout out to Daniel. We got Tampa in the house. We got Boston. We'll let everybody else chime in where they're tuning in from as they come in here.

Um, but as we get into it, y'all, we got Atlanta in the house. Shout out to ATL. But as we get into this, uh, what are we what are we discussing today? What are we talking about? What are new ways to prospect on LinkedIn? You know, how can you go about it? What are some ways that you can stand out across the board as we got obviously different people chiming in today? And the whole goal is for you all to take this information we're going to talk about and go execute. So there's three main things that we're going to be touching on today.

One is what is the way that you can show up on LinkedIn and do prospecting and do outbound and stand out. Like what are the things that you could be doing to get those meetings that you're looking for? Uh the second thing that we're going to be talking about is using videos, how you can be creative, etc. And three is like what are ways that you could follow up on LinkedIn that maybe you're not thinking about. Uh so what we're going to do is we're going to dive into examples of exactly what that is.

I'm going to talk a little bit about, you know, what's going on in in in AMP world too as well, so everybody's informed. And then we're going to dive into some tactical examples. So with that being said, let's dig in. And the first thing that we're going to talk about is who our guest is today, Nelly. So, Nelly, tell us a little bit more about yourself. Uh, what exactly are you selling? What are you doing in the BDR role? And then if you would like to share a fun fact with us. Share a fun fact. >> Okay.

Um, yeah, my name is Nelly. I'm a business development representative at Contentful. Um, our company is actually headquartered in Berlin, Germany, but our North America office is in Denver. So, if you're ever in Denver, it's a super cool building to check out in downtown Denver. The voice is echoing. >> Uh, is anyone else's voice echoing or is it just Muhammad? Let us know if it's echoey. Just if it is and we can fix it, but if everybody else is good, let us know. But now they continue. >> Okay, cool.

Um, so Contentful is a content management system. So, kind of to dumb it down. It's a marketing platform. Um, I've been a Contentful for about a year and a half, but I entered the tech sales world in 2023. So, it definitely was a big shift for me going from medte sales into Contentful where it's a lot of marketing lingo and I had to learn that. And a fun fact about myself, um, I know how to play piano. >> Piano. Okay. What's your favorite What's your favorite thing to play? >> Oh my gosh. Um, probably that like duet that everyone knows.

Like I don't know what that song is called, but I haven't retained a lot, but my dad made um like my brother and I play from kindergarten until we graduated high school. >> Okay. Okay. Shout out. Shout out. >> He said Yeah. He said he would we would thank him one day and I guess I can because I use that as fun fact a lot. >> Yeah. There you go. >> Awesome. Well, I'm Morgan. I cannot play the piano. Sorry everyone that you'll never get that. But um I've been in sales development, prospecting, the outbound world for the past 10 years.

I started off as a SDR sales development rep and most people know my story. Was not good at it at all. Got better over time. Was able to understand what I need to do and you know it led to success from there. Uh and now through the things I've learned through training and workshops and all that different stuff. I now run a company called AMP Social and our main focus is to help reps become magnetic, intuitive, and consistent. What you probably have seen through all the guests that I brought on, like that's what they bring to the table.

So, through the frameworks that we coach on and train on, you know, that's ultimately what we're seeing across the board. And we have a program called Sales Team 6. We'll go into more detail about that after we show the tactics that we're going to talk about today. But that program is our 45day program. Essentially, in that 45 days, uh we're covering all the things, social selling, all the stuff you're going to see today, cold calling, time management, how to speak to people in person, and we've been seeing some incredible results from clients.

One recently, they saw 29% increase in opportunities, 26% meetings booked, and more importantly, $21 million attributed to pipeline. So, we're seeing some awesome stuff with Sales Team 6. What you're getting today is a small snippet of that experience that we do for B2B clients. And that's what we're doing here on Muffins today. And that's what we're about to talk to Nelly about here in a minute. But before we do that, I know you're going to ask me this question. You will get a recording. So if you're like, "Oh, Morgan, I don't know." Like, you will get the recording.

Everything will be fine. Please don't worry about it. Uh you will get the recording. And then if you don't, follow up with us. We'll make sure that you get it. Now, let's get into the tactics of what everyone is looking to learn today. in the chat. Just let us know when it comes to LinkedIn. What is your biggest struggle or obstacle as it stands today? Let us know in the chat. What is your biggest struggle and obstacle as it stands today? Let us know. Um and then we're going to flip to you, Nelly, and talk to us a little bit about before maybe you took some frameworks that I've discussed or I know your approach, you've really evolved it over time.

What were you doing before? How were you treating LinkedIn? What was going on? and then we'll talk about what have you done to change that and we're going to go over some results you've seen. >> Yeah, absolutely. And happy to go through that. I would say, you know, where I was before I kind of fine-tuned it and, you know, with my LinkedIn prospecting, there wasn't really a real framework. I was pretty passive. Um, I would just connect with people and then just honestly like wait. I would like hope and pray.

Uh, so I wasn't consistently messaging, no real follow-up, and I will say like followup is 100% key. So I had no structure. I was hoping that they would kind of just engage first or that something would happen after we connected. So that that was kind of how I approached it. And then I would say, you know, where things shifted is I I kind of saw it as like if they're connecting with me, like that's my opportunity to fully, you know, engage with them. Sorry, my chat is joining the podcast as well today.

>> Join, hey, what up? >> Um, so it was more of just like I I would message them immediately after they connected with me. I wasn't waiting until like, oh, a couple days after they connected, I'll then message with them. The second I saw an accept. I was mess messaging them right away. But at first, it started with I was sending like long paragraphs on LinkedIn. And it was like, nobody wants to read that. So, I was pretty much treating LinkedIn as a second email. And like, people already ignore my emails.

I don't want them to also ignore my LinkedIn. And I I wasn't really getting responses. I wasn't following up. But, you know, it clicked when I was like, "Oh, what resonates with people is short messages, humanize it, and honestly, like just treat LinkedIn as another social media platform." >> I love that. So, I I'm curious for everyone else, are you finding the same in the chat? So, for everyone else that came in, uh, we had kind of Luke say this, Rocky, James, Angie. For those of you who are like, "Hey, we're trying to get more responses on LinkedIn." Do you find that you're writing your messages more like an email?

You can let us know in the chat. But I definitely was the same way when I first started. I would like copy literally copy and paste emails into LinkedIn messages being like, "Oh, this is this is the way to do it." And it and it and it and it wasn't like I uh I got cooked. So So I learned really quickly that it needed to change to make it more human and more relatable. And so, you know, within that, what frameworks have you now implemented? Let's get into the tactics that you've done, and let's talk about some responses that you've seen.

>> Yeah. So, I would say my framework is, and I know this is kind of like 50/50, people don't know how to feel about it, but I'm always like sending like a two to three sentence um note when you connect that's basically I'll call out and be like, "Hey, like I know this is a sales message and like totally fair to feel skeptical, but there is a reason." And I use that as my first message. And then I'll, you know, 3 days later I'll jump in and I'll do a video to kind of be like, you know, I am human.

If I don't get any more responses from that, then I follow up with another message. And it's just, you know, using different avenues of like writing the message out, video, voice memo, writing it out again just to kind of get some attention. I will say like I also stopped doing a lot of paragraphs. the second you start formatting it like an email, it's just just consider that prospect gone. And then another process that I kind of play around with is a lot of not capitalizing any of the any of it.

Like it looks really weird when you see a lowercase I in a message. You're going to want to change it, but I swear that that does work. So, as responses go, I feel like it has definitely helped me get a lot more responses. People just see it as human. I think it's important to kind of consider your prospects as like we just have to be their friends. Everyone has their guard up with salespeople and they feel like there's a lot of pressure to have a meeting and the second they take a meeting they're like, "Oh my gosh, they're going to make me want to buy the software or whatever it is you're selling right away." So, if you can just humanize it and at the end of the day just be like, "Hey, like I get it.

I know you're busy, but would love to would love to connect." You're going to see a lot more responses that way. >> 100%. So, for anybody that's in the chat, does anybody write in lowercase? Uh, yes or no? Let us let us know in the chat if you do. Uh, something I've been also testing is the same. Like, can I talk in abbreviations and acronyms and things of that nature? Like, is that will that help me? Can it can it be different? Like, will it stand out? I think it will. I think a lot of people are very hesitant on >> that sounds too unprofessional or too casual and then it wouldn't work with executives.

So could you talk a little bit more about that and then we're going to and everybody's like oh where are the examples show examples in a minute but I want to understand the psychology of how did you break through your own mindset and perspective to start doing lowercase when you're speaking to your buyers or VPs of marketing and CMOs you know they might be like wait why is this person sending me lowercase uh me how did you break through that and then what have you now seen that you've done that when you're reaching out to exact because a lot of people think this would not Yeah, good question.

I would say in my mind, I guess like the psych psychology where I'm looking at it, I'm like, okay, I want them to think that like I'm just as busy and I'm replying to them where it's like I'm getting out of a meeting as well and that's how they're replying to me as well instead of like, oh, this is just another salesperson like trying to show that they know everything and getting in my inbox. I would say that's like the psychology version of it or how I think about it. >> Yeah. >> Um >> what was the second part of that question?

>> Well, yeah, it's just like the that's it. It's like most people are going to be like, "Hey, well, if you're reaching out to a VP or my buyer personas are too smart, uh they're very knowledgeable. So, if they do a lowercase, they're going to think that you're not knowledgeable, so then they're not going to reply to you." >> Yeah. >> And that's a perspective shift like because a lot of people would be like, "I'll never do that." But I'm starting to see like the people that do that, they get more responses across across multiple personas.

So, it's just been interesting to see because it's different. >> Yeah. I mean, I'm seeing in the chat of like, you know, it's less informal, like maybe you wouldn't do that because you' feel informal. I think if you're looking at an email, like, yeah, keep that a little bit more formal. But LinkedIn, I just it's a bit it's an informal platform, if that makes sense. Like, yes, it's very professional. where all we have professionals posting things, but when you're messaging people, it's it's just like texting.

It's like DMing on LinkedIn. >> So, let let's get into some examples cuz Nelly today brought some examples for y'all cuz y'all want to see what this means, right? We're not about theories here. So, Nelly, if you want to pull up an example of like how you're going about this, how people are responding, and then and then as people have questions, uh feel free to dive into your questions as well, but Nelly's is going to share her screen and she's going to dive into some examples of how she's doing this.

Absolutely. Okay. So, we can all see my LinkedIn. We're good here. We >> I can see the LinkedIn hope in the chat. Can you all see the LinkedIn? Make sure we're good. We're not looking at a a blank screen here. >> Awesome. I want to make sure that I got the chat pulled up as well so I can answer some questions. Um I know that someone asked, I think it was Ally, about what I'm sending in connection. Yes, connection requests. So, this is honestly like a perfect example of what I'm sending right now.

I've kind of like refined it as I've been going, but I don't make it any longer than this. This one is not lowercase. I kind of go back and forth, but I have Melissa. I know this has a cold note, so skepticism is fair, but your work scaling, brand, and guest engagement across so many locations stood out. We help teams manage the content and campaign complexity behind that all content at Contentful, so I thought it was worth connecting. And I never sign off with like best or you know cheers or anything like that.

I'm just like dash Nelly. Um obviously I haven't got a response here but these are most of the the messages I send when I'm connecting and like today will be a perfect opportunity for me to just go follow up and send an email today like a 45 I mean a 45se second video. Um but that's pretty much how I'm connecting with people on LinkedIn. Um, just going through the chat to see which one would maybe be a good one. Okay, so that's Melissa. Um, this is a video one that I sent. Um, at Contentful, we do a lot of sports wagers.

So, we kind of do of like, you know, if you bet on this game, like if you win, we'll send you a Yeti. If you lose, you take 30 minutes with Contentful. Um, a lot of people have have loved it. It's just a fun way to get attention and at the end of the day like it's not just another like typical sales email. It's making it fun of like, "Hey, I saw you went to um UNC, like would love to put a bet on the basketball game." Like simple things like that. So, when that was happening, I would send the connection note, you know, just kind of being like, "I sent you an email like this is what it is, blah blah blah." Um, I always kind of like to put a personal note in there, like I live in Denver, so I mentioned that, you know, that we're in Denver and like obviously my fiance's family are ABS fans.

So, I didn't get any responses. So, then I sent a video. I will say I'm normally not this pale, but when you send a video over like you record it on your phone and then put it into LinkedIn, it for some reason puts a crazy filter on your face. and I was able to finally get a response and like hey that's so sweet I would love to know more about this and kind of just going from there like haha love the energy just like totally keeping it casual and setting a meeting up from there. Um but as you see like that was March 4th I sent that and then I sent the video March 6 and then I got a reply from her right away.

Um so it was a video that really got her to to be like oh okay like this person's real. Um any questions kind of about that right now? >> Let's go back to this um because I think people are going to have questions on this. So when you when you see this right here um this first message March 4th you sent >> and then you sent it March 6th so you waited two days. Is that your standard that you're waiting this two to three days? Um so yeah tell us a little bit more about that like your thought process on the follow-ups.

Yeah. So, I try to do all my like LinkedIn and connecting with people on LinkedIn Monday through Wednesday because I like to dedicate my Friday to sending videos. I think Thursday is just a little too close because it's kind of like I just did that yesterday. I don't want to be like too desperate. So, I would say that's pretty typical. Monday through Wednesday, everyone gets a video on Friday. >> Okay. Okay. Perfect. And then um Yes, everybody. We're going to get to the video in a minute. If you could play the video cuz people want to hear exactly what you said there.

And then obviously we'll probably have some follow questions too. So we'll uh we'll play the video real quick and make sure that everybody can hear it. So let's play it so then we can hear what was the the breakdown there. >> I will say too with the video I am like I'll take the video and it's like first one I just send. I'm like you know whatever I like to >> that's the right energy to have. I think if you overthink it, that's that's where I think uh that's where I think actually the biggest mistakes happen is that you overthink it and then it sounds it sounds like a RTD2.

>> Exactly. Like I'll sometimes stutter in videos. So if you hear that, that's not me like being nervous. I'm just kind of like whatever. Like they're they're getting it. Um >> all right, cool. Let's Let's see if people can hear it. >> Yeah. Let's make sure the sound works. Okay, we can't hear that. Okay. Um, hang on. Let me maybe disconnect from my AirPods. >> Yeah, we'll find out real quick, y'all. But, um, how are we able to send a if they're not connect with you yet? Uh, no, Paige. So, essentially, if you were first degree connected with someone, you can send them a video uh either on the desktop with a a Loom or a SinSpark or a Vidyard, whatever platform you want to use, or you can send it on your mobile phone, uh, your iPhone to that person.

Now, here's the other case and scenario. If you wanted to send it without being connected to them, you could email them or you could send it in the connection request as a link. I would I would tell you that the easiest thing to do is to send a connection request to people that's blank with no note in it in the evening and you're going to have a higher acceptance rate. So, across the I'd probably say 30 to 40 clients I've worked with in the past eight months, I'll tell you that like out of the majority of all those people, the ones that have gotten the best results, the one who's got the people who have gotten the most engagement are the people who send blank connection requests in the evening and have higher acceptance rates, which then leads into them sending more videos.

So, that's how that's the workaround if you don't get accepted. And then if you do get accepted, that's how you send it. So, anyways, back to you, Nelly, to play the videos here. Yes. Let me pull it up because Okay, here we go. Let me know if you guys can hear it. Hey, Jia. Happy Friday. I'm Nelly. Yes, I'm that salesperson who is in your LinkedIn DMs. I'm a real person. Um, just owning it. I'm trying to be slightly different because your role is important and I didn't want to send another circling back note that adds zero value and I reached out with a fun wager because of the Oilers and Avalanche game.

I'm in Denver. It's dumping snow right now. Um but besides that, I did reach out because um you know, creators like yourself who are doing authentic values led um that lead storytelling usually hit a point where organization organizing content um collaborations and publishing work workloads starts eating time they'd rather spend creating. So, I know you definitely have that all sorted out on your end, but sometimes when I say that, you know, people actually are like, "No, we are dealing with that." So, either way, it's totally fair.

You can tell me to go away, but figured I'd be different and at least send something on a >> No. >> Okay. So, I'm at a classic LinkedIn, but we understand that was the CTA there. I know we had uh let's see, Muhammad, Wendy, James, you all asked for the video. Let us know your commentary in the chat on like, you know, what else you want to know there. We'll play more videos, but the video was played. So, let us know what you have questions there. I would say that the biggest the biggest thing here to me, just so that everybody knows, is that like again, it doesn't have to be perfect.

It's just the fact that she did the video and then she took action on it. I think a lot of times it's easy to overthink this and be like, "Oh, I got to go do all this stuff." Like, you don't need to you don't need to do any of that stuff to be honest with you. Like, you just need to send the video. So yeah, that that that's what that's what I would say because that's how you're really going to win at the end of the day. Uh is that so for everybody watching the video, you're like, "Oh, I have to do something crazy." You really don't.

So I don't know, Nelly, if that that's kind of your take on it, but that's that's what I'm getting from this. >> Yeah, 100%. And I think the most important thing too that I I really have kind of like tweaked and refined is yeah I reached out because of the wager and that was kind of my like this is how I'm going to grab your attention but I always tie it back to like there was a real reason why I'm reaching out and your role is important and I kind of you know make it about them so they want to learn more about our product and just like being real like I'm I'm like oh I'm Friday working from home like you see that I'm working from home like I'm not all jazzed up >> that and that that that is a key in itself.

So, okay, let's go to another example. >> Yes, I So, those are kind of like good ones where I've refined refined it from, but I want to just kind of show an older one of like where my LinkedIn used to be to get to where it is now. And this one did get a response, but I will say like it was very what is it saying? Like far and in between. Is that the saying? >> Few and far between. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Okay. That was the saying. So like it would it would be like maybe two a month or something. And then I got to the point with the way I'm doing it now where it was like two a week.

Two. Yeah. So this is this was a CMO. So like this is like who we really want to talk to. But like you can see how long that my LinkedIn messages used to be. I mean three paragraphs is crazy for a LinkedIn message. Um but I was also still following up but my followup was again three paragraphs again and I was able to get a meeting but like I said this would be like I would get two a month and that's not going to help you get to your numbers at all. Like I might as well have just sent that in an email.

Yeah, exactly. Send that in in uh an email. I wouldn't even say send that in an inmail. Like that's pretty much an email only. Hey, send it out. See what happens. >> But it sounds like now this maybe is another example. You're going in being um pretty punchy and it it seems like you lean on sport the sports thing a lot. >> Yeah. So I do a lot of like the sports bets. I mean March Madness was huge for us. Um, so now like we found other ways, but like this one, even though I didn't get a meeting, like I always send that initial message, he replied and he just wasn't the right contact, which I think like, yeah, that's not a meeting, but it's still a win because most of the time you're still able to, you know, right here, he gave me a direct referral of who to reach out to.

So, it's just like little things like that. Like if maybe I would have been a normal salesperson and like sent a long message like I did to that last example I showed you guys, he probably just would have said not the right person and just like left it at that or like not even said anything. But I think by being more human, he was like, "Oh, okay." Like this is who you need to talk to. >> And so when Okay, talk a little bit about emojis. uh how and this is probably how you talk, but a lot of people when they see emojis sometimes now they think it's oh it's AI like stay awake kind of like stranger danger type vibe now how people see emojis so I don't know if anybody in the chat do you use emojis when you communicate or maybe you stop using them because everyone in AI is kind of like everyone sees it right now and they're like oh my gosh I don't want to do this so more so like how do you know is it kind of like a gut feeling of where you use the emojis because you use them as you communicate.

How what does that look like for you? >> Yes. So, I would say like mo any emojis that like chat gives me I usually like clear that out and I have like my select five that I always use but just kind of like before emojis like taking a step back a little bit. I always remove the dashes that like chat will generate in a message because that screams AI. But something that I really do and I'm sure a lot of you in the chat have like done a DISC profile assessment. So that's something that we've done at Contentful is like knowing your DISC profile.

And I've taken that and I'll take a prospect's LinkedIn and I'll ask chat like what is their disc profile based on their LinkedIn and if it's like a D which is dominant I'll just be like okay like I would never send an emoji to that person but if they're like an energetic person which I think is an I then I'll send an emoji just because like they resonate more with emojis and I don't even know if it's like maybe they're just they don't care that it's AI as much but they're like that's just like how they receive information and respond well to it.

So it's a gut feeling of when I know where to put it. Um yeah. >> Okay. So, let's go into what is an example of where you're using maybe the lowercase and then also as well where you're maybe not using like a sports example like if you don't have like um if you don't have like an event or March Madness occurring or sports example and then also as well you're maybe doing something maybe lowercase like how are you sparking that conversation to then book a meeting if you have an example of that one.

Yeah. I mean, um, >> and then as Nelly looks, if people have questions, feel free to put in the chat in the Q&A. Um, obviously if you have something like, wait, I don't know how that works, like now is the time. >> So, this is obviously like an old example when I hadn't necessarily transitioned into my method now, but this is something that I've always stuck with with my prospecting on LinkedIn. Um, always like thanking them for connecting. But I will say like the biggest thing is the bottom paragraph.

The number one thing I'm always looking for with a prospect is where they went to school, where they currently live, where they maybe lived with past roles. And I just try to see like if I can relate it to anything I've done in my life. So like this prospect, they lived in or they went to WMadison and I lived in Milwaukee for a couple years. So I tried to like you know relate it there and that's where I see a lot of success is like if you can have some sort of relation with a prospect they're more likely to be like oh yeah like would love to learn more.

People love when you compliment where they went to school or where they currently live. >> That's something that we actually noticed last time we had Sierra come on here a couple weeks ago. She mentioned she's doing the same exact thing. like she'll mention places that if like let's just say Denver and she's been to Denver, she'll be like, "Oh yeah, like I've been there. This is what I did." And then it'll lead into what they're also asking as well. I think it's obviously important to like not make things up.

Like don't be like, "I was at the Empire State Building and like you weren't." So like don't don't make things up. But I do think what is incredibly important is that you are trying to find relatable points to be human in that. So, it sounds like in any in all basically all these scenarios, you're always trying to find something where you can lead with uh something that is from their school or their location, but not like in a gimmick way cuz you because you could also do that too and that could be a problem.

>> Yeah, exactly. Um necessarily lie, but there are a couple people they they've got cousins everywhere in the United States. So, I'll leave that there. >> So, yeah, you just got it's just like something you got to tap into there. Okay, so uh PS Yeah, I think the PS's are definitely smart to do on LinkedIn. You can even break it up into two different messages too and have fun with that as well. >> It's definitely if you want to use it in email, I think it's a great subject line as well. Um because it's an attention grabber.

People aren't always getting those emails in their inboxes. They're usually getting, for example, for me it's like Contentful and I don't know, AMP. And it's like, oh gosh, I want to open that. >> Yeah. Yeah. You're like, okay. >> Yeah. >> Here we go again. Cool. Okay. So, any I know we went through a good amount of examples. Any other examples? I saw you maybe pull up some more video examples for people to see, but what what else are you doing in the DMs uh to show us here? Um, I would say which other one did I pull up?

This is I mean that's I would say okay I haven't gotten a response from this person but this is I would say a typical workflow. Um, this was obviously an old one, but the followup video that's pretty much what everyone's I would say if you're looking at my like messages that are open here, what a prospect looks like. And obviously like it's not always going to work. You're going to get some people to reply, but just the consistency is what works over LinkedIn. So, you're just so that I have a breakdown here and everybody's kind of like as they're taking notes, you're not doing any um you're not like starting off with a video.

You're starting off with something written, something easy for them to consume, something easy for them to see. >> Then once you do it, once you do that, then the next phase that you're doing is some level of uh maybe a followup kind of that second message, which is kind of like more compact. And then then you're like, "Okay, my last effort is a video and you're pretty much stopping at that third one and you're like, I'm good." You're probably not going to advance more than that, >> right? Yeah.

I mean, this is like obviously I've like given her a go here and I haven't gotten anything. >> Yeah. >> Um, this would be like one that maybe I would like take the gas off for a couple months and then maybe I start outreach again in like 3 months and I and I try something new. But she's already kind of gotten the video, the followup. Clearly, that didn't work. So, something else is going to have to give in three months. >> Yeah, that makes Yeah, that makes sense. Do you go Okay, so this is a question.

>> You reached out to this person in what was this? March. Okay, so are you going to reach back out in July and try again, but they didn't respond to these three messages, or do you like remove this person's connection and go after someone else? Like what do you do when you sent someone three messages and they have not responded? >> It's a lot different. You can't start a new thread like like an email. It's not like oh like let me try again. Like they're going to see the last three messages. So what do you do?

Is this just like over? Like I'm curious for other people in the chat too. Like when you send three messages are you like okay I'm done. I'm going to go to someone else now. Like what's the what's the thought process here? >> I mean yes. Try to find some other people in that company. But honestly, like if I were to send her a message today, I'd probably be like I'd probably like, "Well, I guess nothing's working." And then like try try to do something like that just to maybe start a new thread. But yeah, that that would be my thought process like what is it that's going to get her to reply and like just a oneliner and then like putting her back in my workflow.

>> Okay. Okay. So, you you would come back what, maybe 3, four months later, like I guess how long would you give it? >> Yeah. Probably like March June, July. End of June, July. >> Okay. June, July. You're going to come back with maybe like a oneliner, something, you know, nothing crazy and then try to restart it. Okay. >> Yeah. >> Because I was trying to think of I've been and this I think for everybody else like it's like what what is the like how to continuously re-engage without being a super annoying person?

Like I Obviously, if you send someone eight messages within a two week time span, that's obviously not smart. But if you wait like 3, four months and try to re-engage, I don't think that's a terrible thing to do cuz like, >> you know, if you send three messages and then it's like, okay, I can never talk to this person ever again, that would be like, okay, it's kind of that that's not what we want to do either. So, I was just curious your thought process on that. Yeah, I would say it's like if you're not getting anything within the like month of outreach that like usually works, wait like the 60 to 90 days.

>> Yeah, I think that's completely fair. >> Matt is saying, >> "What percentage of your outreach is LinkedIn versus other channels?" And so I would like to know like what >> so that question I think even the layered question is where do you book the percentage of your meetings? >> I would say honestly I know this it's like 80% of my meetings are booked on LinkedIn and then the other 20 are email just maybe based on more inbound leads. But I I think it varies maybe for every industry and company.

I have never had a a contentful I've never had a outbound win on the phone. So my meetings are 80% LinkedIn and I'm sure everyone also has their own like tool for doing outreach. My company uses outreach and there's sequences that you can add people into. But the success you see with LinkedIn is keeping track of your task because the tool the software tools that you use that are going to like have LinkedIn steps. You're only going to have like two steps per sequence or cadence or whatever it is.

So you have to be diligent on the side of like, okay, like I need to go outside of this sequence and I need to follow up with these people every 3 days. >> Yeah. Uh Matt, was that what you were looking for or do you have any followup questions? Make sure Matt's good. Uh as we are we've covered a lot of different components here, videos, different >> agree does. >> That's definitely a different that's a different combo. Not not here though. Um we've covered your flow. We covered the videos. We've covered exactly how you're talking to different people.

Uh this I want to open up audience like what questions you'all have in Nelly's's workflow. Let us know if you found this impactful. Maybe expanding your perspective on what to do, what not to do here on LinkedIn. But ask questions or maybe is there something that you want to see from Nelly that you have not seen yet? Uh ask ask those questions, put it in the chat. We want to make sure that whatever is on your mind, uh we can cover it as well. So Mohhamad came in and said, "Do you use audio messages only?" So also, so are you only doing videos?

Basically, at the end of the day, >> I'm only doing videos because my thought process is if I'm going to send an audio message, I might as well send a video. Um, I know a lot of people have seen success with audio messages, but personally, I'm just kind of like I'd rather show my face than just like talk into the phone. So >> that's just my preference. But like I said, I I see people see success with audio messages as well. >> I would say if you're going to do audio messages, uh just use it as a way to like warm up, get yourself ready to do videos.

I think videos will always win at the end of the day, but at least you can warm yourself up to it. So, that'd be my take. Uh Angie's asking, "Do you use Sales Navigator?" >> Uh I use Sales Navigator every single day. Um, do you have any specific questions about sales nav? >> Yeah, I guess we'll see if she has a follow-up. So, we'll let her come back with a follow-up question on that. Okay. >> Um, can we start directly with the video message? So, Muhammad, are you saying >> like your first message to someone as a video?

Is that what you're saying? Or I want to make sure I understand your question. Let's go to this question. Are you managing lead list through a CRM that has an API with LinkedIn or are you putting lists together in sales nav and managing there? I'm trying to figure out how to keep track of my LinkedIn cadences, etc. So, yeah, what I guess what's your workflow there? Are you basically using an Excel spreadsheet? Are you using SalesNav or do you have an API link? That's basically the question. Um, uh, yes, I'm using sales nav, but I mainly I'll just like build my list out of like how like I guess maybe if I was going after an industry, a competitor, or if it's like a wager thing.

So, I build those lists out there and then I like get them put into a sequence with outreach. And that's how we all feel about outreach. But I I keep track. Is it how I keep track of like my LinkedIn followup is more of the question or >> I think it's just I I think what what the is like how do you how do you know when to send a I guess it's like how do you know your cadence like outreach has a cadence and it's easy to do that for email and calls. How are you doing it for LinkedIn since they don't directly link up?

>> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Um I I do it actually in like my notes app on my computer. So, everyone that's connected with me, I have like connections I need to follow up with, and I'll just type them in there. And then I like check off the box. And then I also have a separate note that's like people I need to follow up with with a message. And then people I need to follow up with a video. And like if I did video, then I move them to the messages or like if I did message, then I moved them to video. So, it's just like a it's an ongoing checklist that I have.

Yeah, that makes sense to me. Okay, cool. So, he's good there. Uh, from Angie, the question was for SalesNav, she's asking you, do you do it for leads? So, I guess the overall question is how do you use SalesNav to generate more meetings? Like what filters are you looking at, etc. And like what's your >> I I would say like a good starting point with SalesNav is filter in if they follow your company on LinkedIn. That was like the number one thing I did just because I kind of treated it as as a a little bit warmer because they already know what your company is.

So, you can kind of go in there and maybe call out like, "Hey, I saw you follow XYZ on LinkedIn. Um, is there anything you wanted to learn about?" And I always plug in as a BDR, I plug in my account executives book a business, so I'm able to filter filter it out by there. And if there's ever any events, you can filter out by cities, where they're located, um, industries, and and that's how I've found Sales super helpful. >> Cool. All right, cool. Angie is good. We'll go to uh, so Rocky says all lowercase on LinkedIn cold outreach.

That's the question. Like, should he go for the next? I I would I would test >> definitely like >> test test it out like see if it works for you. Sometimes even if you have a spelling error like leave the spelling error. Like sometimes people reply to those things. Like it sounds so weird to say and so wrong but there's like this weird human psychology about people seeing errors and then needing to reply. >> There you go. Rocky here first. Uh Luke's question. How often do you get a response from your first LinkedIn message compared to the hypothetical second or third?

Good question. >> Um, I would say if it's a wager like 40%. If it's more cold outbound where I'm like, h like I know I'm sales blah blah, this is why I want to connect it. That's probably more of like 30%. So waiters get a lot more responses first on. >> Cool. If you got followup questions, let us know. Luke, uh, okay, I'm trying to Okay. What's a good example of a follow-up message after the first message? The example you showed talked about you seeing Nikki's company uh, poking around the pricing page.

What What about for one that wasn't poking around, trying to avoid sounding like they owe me a reply? So, I guess the question is, >> yeah, >> have another example of a follow-up message that's not the one you shown. >> Um, yes. Let me do a little bit of digging. Let her let her let her dig. Anybody have any other lasting questions here. Now is your time. >> Well, one that you just pulled up not really. I guess yeah, this doesn't really answer your question because trying to avoid like the ow you a reply, but like if you see that they've looked at your profile, that's a great followup.

Call that out. >> That is that's definitely a good call out for sure. I definitely tell people you should tap into that one 100%. >> Tap into that one. I would just say my biggest thing is like I'll keep looking for an example but you have your initial outreach like come back with another reason like what's the hook and like don't try to like list so many things like this is what we do this is why we're going to help you this and this and this like narrow it down to one thing and it's more likely to get a response.

I know that's not answering your question. I just got to dig a little bit more than have this one full of >> No, I'll give you uh Muhammad, I think the best way to think about it is like what can you give somebody that like a a level of insight? Uh >> yeah. >> So like go find a blog post and say, "Hey, this is like what's going on in your industry. Like I thought it might be interesting for you to to talk about." Or another one that I've been doing is just asking for people's opinions on something that's very hot in the space right now.

So, I'll show a live example that I'm testing. I just started this like two weeks ago and it's actually been going pretty well. So, uh we'll see how long this goes. But basically, like you just have to think about like how can I get someone to like talk to me? That's all you're really looking for. Uh, and if you think about other things, like I've also made this mistake is I make things too complicated and like it's actually as simple as it needs to be where it's just like, hey, like I'm just looking for your opinion on something and like I just want to see like will they engage or they'll or they'll not engage.

And so I'm trying to I'm also trying to pull up an example of this, but basically let's see. All right, let's see. Uh, all right. This is actually a good example. So, this person has like not rep did not reply. It's like my original stuff for whatever reason. So, like, okay, for example, like, uh, all right. So, I sent this, I sent this video, I sent this feedback, I didn't get anything. And so, normally when this occurs, like it is what it is. So, I've literally just started asking people like this.

So, think about like right now, all of you have this. You just got to think about what it is. What is something? And you can even ask in the chat if you want to, but what is the something in your industry that is considered right now the talk of the town? So what's something that everyone on your calls or everyone in the industry keeps talking about and it's top of mind? So I know based on what we do, we work with SDR teams and we work with AE teams and help them get better at outbound. The number one big thing that a lot of people talk about is AI SDRs and them taking over and you're not having a team.

So I'm literally just asking people, hey, I'm curious on your opinion about this. the talk of the town is that they're going to take over and this is not relevant. I don't think that's the case. What's your take on it? And then people respond and they give pretty good feedback and now we're in a conversation. See, now they're asking me questions and now we're in a dialogue. >> Yeah, I think that's a great example. >> This is how you have to think about things. Like I'm just trying to get people to respond cuz now once they've responded that and I can have a conversation, it could lead to naturally whatever I want it to lead to.

It may not always lead to a meeting, but that this is an example of how you follow up. If I send a video and I ask for feedback, whatever I pitched wasn't relevant. Cool. Don't care. I'm going to move to something else that's relevant, which is something you're probably talking about every day. This is top of mind for everyone. So now I know, okay, cool. And if guess what? If they said that they're in the AI STR camp, then I also I don't want to work with them. So I probably be like, cool. This is not someone I even want to associate with to be honest with you.

So just this is just something to think about to answer your question like how do you create a talk of the town conversation so then more people are actually willing to connect with you. So I don't know if you have if you have anything to follow up on that but like that's what I would say. >> I would say that spot on always like use their LinkedIn as a resource like if they're active on LinkedIn you that's an advantage to you. take anything that they're posting and and run with it. And it's great to just be like, I just wanted your opinion.

Like that opens the door for them to kind of share what they care about and you're not making it all about yourself. >> Exactly. And but it has to be like relevant. Don't be like, >> "What's what's your opinion on like >> Yeah. >> some hockey that they don't care about, but you care about." It has to be something of relevancy for them to actually respond. So that's why you have to be thinking about what is the talk of the town. So, as we have about 12 minutes left, I'm going to go over some things that are really exciting happening in our end.

But Nelly, thank you so much for coming through, sharing some insights, sharing your videos, sharing your thought uh thought process on how you do things. My hope is that people took away at least one thing that they can now add to their process and go do. Uh but before we do got out of here and I show some stuff as we wrap up, Nelly, where can people find you? Uh and any lasting advice you want to give people and then we'll wrap up this whole entire thing. >> Yeah. Well, thank you for having me.

This was super awesome and I hope everyone at least got some value from this. But, uh, you can find me on LinkedIn. It's just Nelly Deferris, my long last name, here on the Zoom meeting. Um, and that's where you can find me. >> Awesome. Yeah. If y'all got any further questions or what you want to see next moving forward, we can definitely dive into that. Uh what I'm going to walk through is you know we've had some people ask like okay how exactly you know this is just what 40 minutes of information that we share.

Um this is 10 like 5 to 10% of what I actually walk through clients with when it comes to B2B organizations and things of that nature. So just want to show y'all if you're like we had some people ask like okay how how can there be a way that you could come work with my team or if you're a leader on the call you're like hey like I want I want my team to do the stuff that you're seeing. This is this is what we do. So, we have this sales team 6 program. As you see, we literally just worked with this client.

I've been super buzzing about this. Uh, after we worked with them 45 days post the program, these are the results that we brought. So, 29% increase in opportunities created, 26% meetings booked. Uh, and then the most important part, obviously, $21 million in pipeline created. Obviously, everyone's ACV is different, but I always point to this and like because we talk about booking meetings, but not about the pipeline that it creates. That's why it's so important when we just walk through what Nelly was doing that when you reach out to people that you want to be conversational.

You want to be unique and different because that's what's going to stand out in the executive's inbox, which then leads to more pipe unattributed because now we're actually speaking to the decision makers and people we need to get in front of. So, this was an awesome use case here where we work with this client and this is how it works. So, if you're like, "Hey, like I want my team to get involved." This is what it looks like at a glance. Uh, so this is what our 45day program looks like with sales team 6.

As you see here, uh, we do a diagnostic. So, everything that you're working on in terms of outbound messaging, cold calling, email messaging, whatever it is, uh, I look at everything before I come in to make sure it's custom. Then we go through account planning. Some people were talking about salesnav. Well, we actually get under the hood. We go through your accounts. We give you attack plans. We give you outbound orchestration. Session two, we go over LinkedIn. So, how to send LinkedIn videos like we just talked about here today.

LinkedIn voice notes, LinkedIn messaging, and then cold calling. We still got to make cold calls, still got to break through the noise. We go through that. And then we have coaching blocks that we also go through as well. So, uh Steph on my team just dropped it in here. If you are a leader and you're like, "Man, I need my team to break through the noise and be different when it comes to outbound and we want more pipeline and we want more meetings booked, let's have a conversation, strategy session." If you're a rep and you're like, I wish that my team had this and they don't, we can also chat as well, give you a strategy session and see if I can work with your team.

So again, this is what we're working on. Uh this is what we're really excited about right now. We've seen crazy results from it. You just saw it from the last slide. So again, if you are in the motion of like, we're in May. I can't believe we're already in May, which is crazy. But if you're like, hey, I I want to get more out of my team. I want to do more. I think there's more we can be done. Fill out that and then uh we can have a strategy session with you. Give you some breakdowns on what you could be doing your app on process and then maybe we could work together.

So that's what's going on there in terms of sales team 6. Wanted to share that as we wrap up. But more importantly, as we do wrap up, any lasting questions that anyone has on the LinkedIn outbound front moving forward? Um, if not, I have actually one more question for Nelly because I I really want to see her take on this one. When you're doing LinkedIn messaging, and I know it's different for every persona and buyer, and I get that, but where are you finding the most success when you send messages?

Is it on the weekend? Is it is it on, you know, Fridays at noon? Right? like where where are you seeing like, okay, I'm getting the most results here. >> Thursdays. >> Thursdays. Okay. >> Mhm. >> Yeah. Thursdays. Okay. >> I don't know if it's cuz like people are excited that it's about to be Friday or what it is, but Thursdays. And I will also say um we have a thing called like LinkedIn after dark. Um >> that sounds extremely suspect. You get more responses after the business hours. I'm telling you, >> LinkedIn after dark, is that where you book the most meetings?

>> Yes. If you're just like on your couch eating dinner, connect with people, send messages, you get a lot more responses. >> LinkedIn after dark. Who would have thought? >> Yep. I You said I could give shout outs. So, if I don't give a shout out to a guy on my team, Jake Manger, he's gonna be really upset because he's like, "You took my saying and now like everyone wants to know about it from you." >> That was his thing. >> Yeah, that was his thing, but he never did it. >> LinkedIn after dark is actually absolutely hilarious.

Um, yeah, I do I think of the evening time or after dark that's the best way to do it for sure. Like you cannot you truly cannot go wrong. Um, yeah. So, >> do you send But is it messages or videos as well? >> It's more messages that I send at night. The videos I just do I try to do them Friday morning because I like to think or I hope that everyone has a bit slower over Friday. >> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I'm just I think the LinkedIn after dark is funny. >> It's been LinkedIn After Dark Nelly at night.

Like there's a couple Leaping at the dark and Nelly at night that you can start your messages that way. >> Yeah, Nelly at night. >> Nelly at night. I'm pulling up on you. Uh, awesome y'all. Well, again, we have that in there. If you want to strategy session, fill it out. Anybody has any questions, uh, just go ahead and fill that out and then we'll reach out to you. If not, hopefully again you take the advice that we talked about here today and that you can, you know, go moving forward. And the goal is like Angie, what you said is for you to be more creative, be more thoughtful, and do things that will help you stand out.

So hopefully you'll have a amazing rest of your Friday and weekend. Nelly, thank you so much for coming on once again, and we'll see you all on the flip side. >> Thank you. >> Cheers everybody.
