# B2B SaaS Sales: 5 Tips for a Winning Sales Process

**Expert:** TK Kader

**Rank:** 3

**Metadata Score:** 96

**Published:** 2025-03-23

**Duration:** 00:27:34

**Views:** 6,495

**Likes:** 221

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XJ-dddPl7oo

---

# Transcript

At the heart of every single SaaS business is the sales process. The sales system. The way you turn leads into real revenue. Founders who are allergic to sales never win, founders that embrace the art form of sales of marketing have a 10X advantage in the market. Whether as a founder, you're selling to investors prospects or even potential hires, you need to have a proper sales system. In this episode, I'm going to walk you through the five principles that you absolutely need to know to ten x your sales process and when you watch till the end and implement these principles, you will be able to embrace sales.

You will be able to transform your sales process and you will be able to accelerate your path to that next stage of growth. Intro Let's everybody. Welcome to Unstoppable. I'm TK and on this channel I help SaaS founders like you grow your SaaS business faster with an unstoppable strategy. Now, if you're new to this channel, welcome. I drop an episode every single Sunday with actionable strategies and tactics from the trenches on how to grow your SaaS business faster. So if you knew, be sure to hit that subscribe button and that bell icon.

That way you'll get notified every single time I drop an episode with the TC Energy. Now, if you're part of this community, support my SaaS, go to market coaching programs. But people. Welcome back. It's really awesome to see over here. I remember when I first started closing bigger deals that my last company Tout app. We started off as a product led business, but very quickly we started to see that entire teams and leaders in an organization were willing to buy our product, were willing to buy hundreds of seats, and most importantly, they were willing to pay upfront for the whole year.

So this is when we really had to embrace actual sales processes to make sure that we were turning all these leads, that we were getting all these opportunities that we were getting, and even the trials that we were getting to real deals in real revenue. Now, Baby TC was a little bit allergic to sales. I hated the idea of having to get on sales calls to do demos or even having to hire and manage salespeople. But Baby T.K. decided to grow up and decided to embrace sales. Not in the cheesy sales ways that everyone thinks of when you're thinking about sales.

As an engineer, I started off as an engineer, but in the way where you're serving your customers and educating them and guiding them in the buying process. So fast forward to today. We ended up selling Tout app to Marketo. I ended up joining Mark Meadows Executive team as SVP of Strategy. We are selling Marketo to Adobe And since then I've coached hundreds of founders inside of my SaaS go to market program on how to revamp their sales process. So in this episode I'm going to walk you through the five principles that you absolutely need to.

And if you watch till the end, I'm going to give you a special bonus principle that will actually help you bring it all together. And ten x the speed at which you can transform your sales process. Super excited to go and smash up like button for the YouTube algorithm. And let's go to principle number one. Principle number one is to really understand what you're getting into. A lot of times people will go into a call or a demo thinking it's a sales opportunity, but really it's not. So one of the things that I find super helpful when talking to founders, when they're starting to embrace founder led sales and marketing is to understand what these different words mean.

First, there's a prospect. A prospect is someone in your ideal customer profile that should buy your product, that should know about you, but maybe doesn't know about you yet. So if you're going on Apollo or a similar platform and downloading a list of emails and names, those are prospects. They're not even leads. Once a prospect raises their hand and says, Hey, I'm interested in this company, whether they download your manifesto or their lead magnet or fills out a form, then they become an actual lead.

Once they become a lead, if they choose to book a call with you and say, Hey, I want to learn more about your product. At that point, you have a real opportunity, and that's where sales really begins. Up until that point, it's really just marketing. That's the distinction. Once you get into an opportunity, then you're working through your sales process to convert that opportunity to a real customer. And also it's super important to understand because we run SaaS companies, they are recurring revenue businesses.

So once someone becomes a customer, there's always a second opportunity that gets open either to sell them on the next stage of the platform or to renew them a year from now or a quarter from now, whatever they sign up for. All right. So that's principle number one. Just understanding the difference between a prospect, a lead, an opportunity and a customer and where the sales process actually starts. Now, this may be super basic, but honestly, when I got in the game, I didn't even understand it.

And what I found is people think they know the basic things and they're afraid to ask really what all those things mean. But when you get to cover the basics, the more advanced stuff starts to really come together. All right. Principle number two is something that I learned the hard way. Having added millions of RR having sold services and SaaS products, having been a part of multimillion dollar sales opportunities. Now, one of the biggest things I learned, principle number two is don't sell before you know there is a deal to be had.

This is one of the things I learned the hard way. when you look at the great salespeople and I've worked with some incredible salespeople, I've had incredible salespeople on my team, I've gone along as SVP of Strategy on large deals, where these super, super amazing enterprise sales reps were running these deals. And I've also been part of mid-market sales processes and also founder led sales processes. Now, one of the things I saw the best of the best do is they didn't go in and start selling until they really knew there was a deal to be had.

It can be super exciting when you're hitting on a sales call. You got that demo, you got that discovery call and you're like, Oh my God, I'm going to tell them how amazing we are, how we're ten times better than everyone else, and we're showing them this feature and this feature. And when they look at it, going to be like, Oh my God, please take all my money. reality is, the best salespeople don't start there where they start with as they first start, try to understand if there is an actual deal.

Here's the thing. Believe it or not, there's a whole group of people on the Internet that are just wasting their own time and filling out forms and getting on sales calls. The professional salespeople call them tire kickers. Tire kickers are the people that will fill out a form and get on a call because they literally have nothing better to do. There are also people that are just so early in the buying journey, in the exploration process where they're not even close to buying. they may not even be the actual decision maker.

They might be the intern doing some research. So the best sales reps taught me that before you start showing your product doing a demo, you should first figure out if there is an actual deal to be had. Now you might be wondering, how do I do this? The easiest way I found is to start every single sales call with a very simple ask. Just ask them like, Hey, before I show you a demo and I'm happy to do that before we get into any of the features or what we do. Look, you're taking some time out of your day to have booked this call and to get on this call with me.

What's going on in your world that prompted you to spend some time together today? Just ask them that, which is not really a salesy thing. I hate salesy stuff. It's truly coming from a place of service because what it's going to give you is they're going to tell you why they booked the call, why they're taking time out of their day, what's going on in their world. Is this an actual problem that they're facing? Are they're looking at compelled? talk a lot. One of the biggest things that I learn when doing this is to just train myself, to not interrupt them.

Believe it or not, if you just had the mute button after you ask that question, I've seen people talk for a minute telling me everything about their lives and what brought them to this call. This is super important because this will tell you one of two things. It'll either tell you you're dealing with a tire taker, someone doesn't value their own time, and therefore they don't value your time. Or you're dealing with someone that's actually doing real research that understands the problem, that maybe has checked out all the things you've sent over once they became a lead or read your website or watched a demo video.

All of these things will give you information on how to craft the rest of this call. Now, the amateurs and the way, don't say that in a derogatory way, like BTK did this to will jump straight to a demo and not ask any questions. the founders actually learned how to get great at sales, especially founder led sales. They look at this as a form of coming from service. It's like, look, I'm going to spend time with them. I want to serve them. I want to make sure it's valuable for them. So let me first ask what's going on in their world so I can customize the rest of the call, whether it's showing a certain aspect of the product or educating them about the market, or just understanding like, Look, I don't think you're serious about any of this, so why don't we just end the call right now, which is perfectly okay.

And believe it or not, that's one of the biggest things. I also saw the best A's quickly figured out if there's a deal or not. If there wasn't, they would not put in as much effort in the call that would start to qualify them out, which is totally fine. So if they're not willing to tell you what brought them the conversation or what problem they're facing or why they booked the call, then they're probably not that serious. And they're like, Look, I don't care. I don't want to answer any questions.

Just show me the demo. Then you can just say, Look, our product is pretty complex. There's lots of features. I can show you a demo, but it's going to be a waste of time for you and for me. How about this? Why aren't I? And the call here I'll send you a link to a very in-depth video that gives you a full breath of the product. And then after that, if you really want to have a conversation, we can do that. And what you'll see is immediately it'll filter out the people that are wasting your time. And in the case where someone's not really wasting your time, they'll perk up and they'll say, okay, this person is being serious.

They want to actually serve me. And they'll start answering the question and giving you tons of ammo on why they booked the call. All right, so that's mental Number two, principle number three is don't sell unless there is an urgent and important problem. This is particularly true in the founder led stage. So the founder of that stage, the reality is you're not going to convince a whole bunch of people that are not aware of the problem to buy your product. They're just too early in the journey. So the companies that really figure out how to drive growth start to speak to and focus on the segment of the market that understand their problem, we're ready.

And they're like, I'm looking for a solution. you want to suss out after they tell you why the book, the call is asking them, Hey, what have you explored in terms of this problem? This problem that you're encountering, which is why you book the call? How important is it, how urgent it is, what's going on in the company that you're spending time on this? And if they don't position it as an important and urgent problem, then just talk like, look, it sounds like you're a little early and love to stay in touch, but right now you're just not at the stage where a demo would be helpful.

You're still trying to figure out the problem and you're saying it's not even a top priority for you. And at that point, one of two things will happen. It'll filter out the people that are going to be wasting your time or people will perk up and say, Well, actually, hang on, let me be clear. This is exactly what's going on and that's why I book the call. I actually may have miscommunicated, but this is why it's that important, an urgent problem. And every single one of these steps actually helps you qualify them.

And not from a hey, like I don't want to waste my time on you, but more from a I don't want to waste our time. We could be doing a million things. And I don't know if your tire taker or if you're serious about solving the problem, because if you don't have the important urgent problem, if you're not being intentional with your time, then I want to give you a demo. I want to follow up over an email. I'm going to keep chasing you down and I'm going to have you in my pipeline. I'm going to think I'm gonna close the deal.

But really, eight months from now, I'm going to realize I was wasting time and you were wasting time. You're not going to say all that out loud. That's what you say to yourself. But that's why you want to ask these questions. And I learned this the hard way. One of the top things I ask when I'm meeting with founders is, Hey, where is this in your priority list? Fixing your go to market strategy or whatever I was selling at the time. If it wasn't a top priority, then I'd say like, Cool, well, why don't we do this?

send you some helpful information. And when it is a top priority, just let us know and we'd be happy to reengage and one or two things would happen. It would get rid of the tire kickers, people that were wasting their time already, or they would perk up and they say, actually, hang on. TC here's what's really going on. And one of the things that really happens here is you create a space of mutual respect because you're setting boundaries, because you're not overly eager to please. You're actually showing them like, Hey, I value my time and I value your time.

Let's have a serious conversation, if not totally cool, Let's just move on. And what this does especially in the early stages, it keeps you focused on the segment of the market that actually has the urgent and important problem that you are solving. You're spending time on those people. So that's principle number three. Now, before I go to number four and number five and go to the bonus one, let me pause here for a second. Are essentially the power in this. If you're starting to see the power of asking a series of questions that really qualifies the call and gets them to think about, well, why am I here?

Is this urgent and important? What's going on in my world? Not only does it primed them to be receptive and take the call seriously, but it also gives you so much information that will help you give a better demo. It will help you give a better pitch that will help you give a better follow up email that will help you down the line when they've kind of forgotten about you and you're still trying to close a deal or they're trying to get the decision makers on, or they're trying to get this group buying process going, it gives you ammo that you can use because let's just say three weeks from now, they're like gone a little bit dark, but they were engaged and they had two meetings.

You're like, Hey, listen, on the first call you told me and this was a top priority and this is the problem and this is why it's a problem. That's what you book the call is. That's not true. What you'll notice is this gives you ammo for the entire sales process and it actually gives you ammo to speed up the whole sales process. And also, this is not a tactic. This is not a trick. This is not one of those cheesy, salesy things. You're coming from a place of respecting your own time and respecting their time, and you're coming from a place of serving these people.

that's what the great salespeople do. So if you don't see the power in this, can I just get a yes in the comments below and also smash a like button for the YouTube algorithm? It just loves it when you do that. Also, if you're in the stage where you've got a product, you've got some revenues and you're really looking to scale your growth and you're looking for more sales calls, more pipeline and also a proper sales process. This is how I help inside my SaaS Go to market coaching program, a link to it below.

You don't have to go anywhere right now. I'll tell you more about it at the end of this episode after the bonus principle and you can figure it out from there. However, right now, let's go to principle number four. person number four, give you a whole bunch of don'ts and hopefully that shifts your narrative on how you approach sales calls. Number four is do sell your unique selling proposition, your USP, every sales process and every marketing process needs a USP, unique selling proposition. The reality is if you're selling SaaS software, there is competition.

Now competition could be another well-established company, competition could be another startup, competition could be apathy, them doing nothing or just using the Excel spreadsheet that they're using competition might be using a services offering instead of using an actual product. It could be any number of things. If you're in the air space, competition might be distrust. They might be saying, Hey, I've tried a bunch of these and they sucked. So I signed up for it and then I canceled it and it was terrible.

And I bet you're the same. when you do get into selling, when you do get into okay, be sorry. Everything you shared, you'd be a great fit for our product. Do you want me to show you what we do and how whole thing works? Well, you want to lead with your unique selling proposition. What's unique about your product? The easiest way I think about this is what's the ten Xa the ten x value proposition that I can communicate that immediately communicates. We're different and we're positioned in a different way and we're specifically for you based on the problems that you're facing.

So by the time you get into the demo, as you lead into the demo or your sales deck, you really want to lead with your unique selling proposition. And if you don't have a unique selling proposition, if you don't have a proper sales deck, those are things you want to put into place so that you are effective in the sales. Cause by the time you get to the spot we're founders go wrong is they think that selling is just showing them how great the product is. But that's not true. selling really is, is educating the buyer and showing them why you're the best fit for them and getting over objections.

In order to do that, you need ask questions to understand what's going on in their world, how important and urgent the problem is, and why it's so important and urgent. And then you need to communicate why you're ten times better and you create this narrative that communicates to them exactly why you're the right fit for them, and then you get into the product. So that's principle number four Do sell your unique selling proposition and make sure you codify that in a proper value proposition, a proper sales deck.

That's super important in this part of the process. Principle number five is what happens towards the end of the call. So principle number five is teach them how to buy from you. A lot of first time founders that are getting into sales or doing final sales even new salespeople. They struggle with this. They think that, give the great demo and they're going to be like, Oh my God, please take all my money. And that never really happens. Sometimes it happens, but usually not, especially in the early stages, unless you really craft all these pieces, then you do get to a bunch of head nods and aha moments and they're leaning in.

But even then can't just leave it to them. As part of this coming from service, as part of this, really educating them about the problem and the competition while you're ten times different, one of the key things you have to do is you need to educate them on how to buy from you. So the bad way to do this is just say, Hey, hope you love the demo. Do you want to buy? And they're like, Well, we need to talk internally. We're looking at a few others, so we'll get back to you. And you're like, Okay, cool.

Well, let me know. Or like, I'll send you a follow up email. You send this one follow up email. You never hear from me ever again. That's the bad way to do it. The right way to do it is to teach them how to buy. The way you teach them how to buy. The simplest way is to say, okay, cool. Well, let me tell you a little bit on how typically customers buy from us. Typically the way customers buy from us is then you can go into exactly how the buying process works. Typically for your customers, your best customers, you can say, well, typically we start with a pilot or typically we do a 30 day trial or typically we can schedule another call with everyone else on your team and go in deeper for a demo, or we can talk through the commercials and the pricing on a subsequent call.

So what you're doing there is figuring out the next step, which is common sales advice, but it's not pushy. It's coming from a place of this is how the last five deals I won and the new customers that I got, this is how they bought. So when I tell you how they did it and hopefully that works for you and then we can figure out how we can implement that. one or two things are going to happen at that point, you're going to like, Well, that's cool. I'll see you later. We'll let you know. We don't need any of that.

And maybe then at that point they will get back to you, or they were just a tire kicker or the other alternative, is the more likely scenario they're going to say, okay, cool. You know what? You're right. I need to talk to my boss and I need to talk to to these team members. So why don't I do that? then you can say, cool. What do you need to have that conversation? Like, can I send you stuff that that would be valuable or can we schedule a time I can help you prep for that or you can bring them to the meeting and I can guide you guys through it?

What this does is you're teaching them how to buy and you're also getting next steps and you're moving the sales process forward, not from a pushy way, but from a place of, Hey, I'm here to serve you. I'm here to guide you. So what do you need? And how do we make this work? Because I know and this is where principle number one really comes in Principle number one was, Why are you here? You can reiterate that. And it's like, I know you're here on this call because you can literally say back to them what they told you in the beginning of the call, which is ammo for you and say, I know that this is the thing that you're really struggling with this is a huge problem for you.

So I want to make sure that address that. So what do you need from our And typically what we do is kick off a pilot. So what would be the best way to do that? So that's principle number five, have a solid clothes and a next step, not from a pushy way, but from a place of like, Hey, last five customers, here's what we did. Does that work for you? If yes, great. Let's do that. If not, what do you need? And you can start to figure those things out. right. So that's number five. And I told you I had a bonus one for you.

So what you'll notice is with one through five, you're starting to put a real structure and a system to your sales calls. And you're going to do this over and over and over. And as you start to see how they respond and how it goes, you're going to know what you need to iterate on. Now, the best way to actually get to great in terms of your system is to have a whole lot of sales calls. If you just have one sales call a week, then you're not going to get better fast enough to actually close more deals.

And also it's not going to get you to your revenue number. So when I first started embracing this whole sales led journey and the founder led sales, we got to a million in RR with a six person team, which was incredible. one of the big reasons we're able to do that, where I was able to win deals the two people I was training up who did not come from a sales background like barely did, and they didn't even want to do sales. I convinced them to do it. The reason we were able to do that was because we just had a lot of calls.

We built our go to market machine where we just had a lot of at bats. We were having a lot of sales calls and every single time we'd get better and better on how we ask the questions and how we gave the demo and how it drove the process. So the bonus principle is you want to aim for five x pipeline. If your calendar is empty, you don't have five X pipeline. What five x pipeline is, is whatever your target revenue number is, let's just say 10 million. It means that you need to have $5 million of pipeline.

And going back to that first principle, If you need $5 million worth of opportunities, then you need a whole bunch of leads and a whole bunch of prospects to go after. So what you want to make sure is you're also doing the marketing piece, which, you know, marketing plus sales is go to market. You want to be doing the marketing piece so that you get enough sales calls so you can actually insert your sales process. And that's how this whole piece comes together. So let's recap everything we covered first and then I'll tell you about next steps.

principle number one in your sales process is understand what is an opportunity versus a lead or prospect. And you want to make sure that you're doing the marketing so you get as many opportunities as possible. And also, once you get an opportunity, win a customer, create another opportunity because you need to renew that opportunity or expand that opportunity. Now, principle number two is I know your products are awesome and you want to give the amazing demo, but before you do that, just ask them, Hey, why are you here?

Don't sell before you know there is a deal to be had. You want to kick out the tire kickers? Trust me, there's a lot of people on the internet that are tire kickers, so you just want to filter those out and focus on what's moving. That's a mantra we had in that six person team, right? We've got to focus on what's moving in. They're not moving their tire kickers, so let's focus on the deals that are moving. First of all, number three is don't sell unless there is an urgent and important problem. Just ask them like, Hey, how potent is this problem?

How urgent is this? Why is this urgent? Why are you on this call and why are you dealing with this now versus everything else that you need to do that's going to give you ammo, but it's also going to qualify. This is a serious buyer or not. If they're not a series buyer, totally cool. You can close out the call. And at that point they might say, I know I'm serious, or you just identify our target here and you can nurture them through your marketing. And that way they'll come back when they're ready.

First of all, number four is it's a competitive world out there. So do sell on your USP. Also develop your USP, your unique selling proposition. That's your value problem and makes you have a proper sales stick that a proper strategic narrative that guides them in why they need to go with you. And number five, as you get to the end of the call after your amazing demo, teach them how to buy from you. No pressure needed. I used to like, Hey, typically the last five customers that I won, here's what they did.

So let me talk you through how that works and here's why it works really well. And we can talk about what's best for you, and that will create next steps. But you can co-created together. the bonus one is you got to make sure you have five X pipeline. If you don't have enough sales calls, you're not going to get great at sales. So make sure you're doing the marketing piece so that you have enough sales calls to actually win them. So now, you know, the five principles. I learned the hard way on how to transform my sales process and you can implement them too as well.

What you may not know is how do I get more pipeline, how do I get more sales calls or how do I really structure this sales call by the time I get them? what should my sales deck be? How do I deal with these answers that I'm getting? I'm getting some weird answers I need to deal with, or what is my unique value proposition, my unique selling point? What should my sales stack look like and how do I structure it, or do I track all this and do the follow ups for any one of these things? You're likely in this phase where you have a product and you have initial revenues and you're like, okay, I need to grow, I want to grow, and I need a much more scalable sales and marketing system.

And this is what we call a go to market machine. I talk about this on this channel all the time. So if you're in that stage, then this is why I created my SaaS of Go to Market coaching program. Inside this program I work with you to revamp your go to market machine to make sure that you're generating leads that are turning into opportunities. And you also have a proper sales system to turn those opportunities to happy customers that keep renewing and keep buying more and referring you. It's an incredible program.

This is my sixth year running this program and we've shared huge number of customer success stories of founders that have gone through this program. The way the program works is I guide you through three core pillars. First, we really flesh out your ideal customer profile. what this does is I do it in a certain way where it really helps us figure out what segment of the market are we going to focus on. And I have a 29 point checklist we go through to build out your ideal customer profile. Once you have that, then we build out your manifesto.

Your manifesto is your unique selling proposition. It turns into your sales stack. It's the strategic narrative that really communicates why you do what you do and why you're ten times better than the rest of the market. And that work that we do together helps us really clarify what your message is. And this can get deployed in your marketing activities and your sales activities all the way down your home page. And I know you're redoing your home page right now. Everyone is. And then the third pillar is a Broadway show.

Founders are busy. There's lots of things you have to do, but let's be real. You needed to go to market. That's probably at the top of your list. Otherwise you're not going to get the growth. The next feature is not going to get the growth. so I give you the step by step instructions on how to run a Broadway show. The Broadway show is a consistent set of sales and marketing activities that you can run to bring your manifesto to your ICP on a consistent basis. And best of all, I teach you how to do this in a way where you just have to do it for a sprint, and once it's working, I'll teach you how to scale it out, whether it's hiring the right people, contractors, agencies, so that you can have a whole system running and working for you.

It's an incredible program. So if you'd like to work together, just go to take intercom slash GTM to katakana slash Gtlm and all the information will be over there. Now, the better the fit, the better the results. If you'd like to work together, we'll ask that you just book a call with us by filling out a short survey. And on the call we'll figure out where you are, where you need to go, what's holding you back, and if it's the right fit, we're off to the races right away. It's an incredible program.

I absolutely love it. That's why I'm running it for the sixth year, I have founders that have gone through the program that are more successful than some of these coaches that are out there that can't deliver results. That's how we've been running for six years. And when you apply to join and if you're fit, we'll even give you all the success stories so that you get full certainty that this is the right program for you. So just go to Teacake Intercom slash g t, and All right. Well, that covers everything.

Now, if you're still watching, which is awesome, you got value from this video. Please smash the like button for the YouTube algorithm. It just loves it when you do that. Also, I drop an episode every single Sunday with actionable strategies and tactics from the trenches on how to grow your SaaS business faster. So be sure to hit that subscribe button and that bell icon. You'll get notified every single time I drop an episode. You have a fellow founder. If you a team member, if you're part of a Slack group or WhatsApp group of other founders.

So get value from this founders that are looking to scale their companies that are working to embrace sales and marketing but are having trouble, then please share this with them. It means the world to us. And lastly, remember, everyone needs a strategy for their life and their business. When you are with us, yours is going to be unstoppable. I'm T.K., and I'll see you inside the SaaS. Go to market coaching program. Take care, everybody.
