# B2B SaaS Referral Programs

**Expert:** TK Kader

**Rank:** 4

**Metadata Score:** 96

**Published:** 2024-07-28

**Duration:** 00:12:15

**Views:** 1,748

**Likes:** 65

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EpOV2pcMFyo

---

# Transcript

The best in class SaaS companies have 20% of their customer base, referring them to new customers. That's incredible. Now, you might be thinking, TC, I don't actually have a best in class SaaS company. In fact, I'm a mid-market company or an up and coming company. I don't have 50,000 customers that are out there doing word of mouth marketing for me. What do you do? Well, first let me ask you, what if 20% of your customer base was actually referring you to new customers, what would that look like?

What would that mean for your go to market strategy? What would that mean for the scale of your business? Turns out you don't have to be a public company with a 100,000 customers to get 20% of your customers to be referring new customers. Turns out there's a way to actually implement a system that consistently gets you referrals in this episode, I'm going to walk you through the three principles that you absolutely need to know on how to implement a referral program so that you can accelerate the path to the next stage of growth.

But quality inbound consistent referrals from your happiest customers. Intro Let's everybody. Welcome to Unstoppable. I'm T.K. and on this channel I help SaaS founders like you grow your businesses faster with an unstoppable strategy. Now, if you're new to the Seattle welcome, I drop an episode every single Sunday with actionable strategies and tactics from the trenches on hungry SaaS business Faster if you knew. Be sure to hit that subscribe button and that bell icon. You'll get notified every single time I drop an episode with the TC Energy.

Now, if you're a part of this community if you're part of my SaaSkatoon market coaching programs, if you're a customer of instant or megaphone or my SaaS companies people. Welcome back. It's really awesome to see over here. Here is a snapshot of a referral campaign dashboard that we're running for one of my companies. And one of the things you'll notice is it's not a lot of customers. It's only got about 100 customers that we consider happy and we're actively nurturing. But with that small group of customers, because we're running a proper referral program using Megaphone, we are actually getting a 13% referral rate.

This means that we've actually generated over $200,000 of pipeline and we've already won $133,000 of revenue out of that pipeline. Those are incredible numbers. And so regardless of the size of your business, you can actually implement a proper referral program to start driving scale for your business. So in this episode, I'm going to walk you through the three principles that we consistently follow when implementing proper referral systems to grow companies. you're excited going to principle number one, go and smash out like one for the YouTube algorithm and let's dig right into it.

So first of all, what we've found with companies, we've talked to companies of all sizes. There's a minimum bar of number of customers. You do need. You need at least 100 if you don't actually have 100 customers, you first need to be focusing on how do I get to 100 customers that are happy? So first principle number one is just to cover our bases here. The core principles to actually get customers. There's three core things that I talk about in this channel in order to get customers and build a scalable go to market strategy.

first one is you need a proper ideal customer profile. You can go after the entire planet or you can go after a very specific segment of the market to fast track your path to 100 customers. The second thing you need is a differentiated message. I call this a manifesto, and once you have the ICP and the manifesto, you need to be running a Broadway show. This is a consistent set of sales and marketing activities that you run to bring your message to your ICP on a consistent basis so that you can actually earn new customers.

Now you could be doing this through inbound, you could be posting online, you be doing outbound. You could be cold calling, cold emailing or sending a FedEx envelope, which has a 99% open rate. You could also be going through partnership channels. So you could be going to an event run by a partner. You could be co selling, you could be co-marketing. These are all different strategies that you can run to actually build a go to market strategy and execute on it to actually get customers. Now, if you already have at least 100 customers, if you have 5000 customers, if you have 50,000 customers, then comes the principle number two.

By the way, if you're below our customers, you just don't have enough customers for referrals yet. Don't mess around with the referral program. You should actually watch this video. This is one of my best videos on this channel, The Six Steps to create a go go to market strategy so you can actually get 100 customers, but keep watching till the end for the algorithm. And just so you know, so you can fast track to 100 and then you know, when to launch a referral program. And for those of you that already have at least 100 customer or 5000 customers or 50,000 customers, let's go to principle number two.

So principle number two is you've got to keep your customers and you've got to make sure that they're happy. The worst thing to do is actually email your entire customer base and spam them and say, Hey, can you give us a referral? And all of a sudden they're like, Oh yeah, I should not be paying for you guys. Like I should cancel my subscription right now. You don't want that. So principle number two is actually make sure that you have a system in place to measure your happy customers. The way we do this for all of our companies.

In the way I teach founders to do this is to measure CSAT scores drawn in NPS survey and also track product usage. You take these data points and you feed it into an engine and assign every single customer an actual customer score. As soon as a customer has a happy customer score, then you can actually start asking them for referrals. But if they actually have a low score, then don't ask them for a referral. In fact, that's a churn risk. That's an unhappy customer. So reach out to them and preempt them from actually churning.

This is a dual fact strategy for growth. One it actually improves your retention rate, which inherently increases your growth rates, but also it sets you up for success for actually getting word of mouth and referrals going, okay, So those are the first two principles. This is the third principle of how you actually ask for referrals and how to do it the right way, how to make sure it's consistent. But before I go into that, let me pause here for a second. All right. So I see the power in this. The key here is to fast track to 100 customers and then a thousand, and then 5000 and then 10,000.

In order to do that, you first need a proper go to market strategy that you're executing on as you're starting to get those customers, you need to actually track all the data through the customer journey and assign every single customer a customer score. This will do two things. One is to reduce churn, but also to identify who are the customers that are actually happy. So you can actually ask them for referrals and that's when the fun begins. If you start to see the power in this, are you see the power of this?

If you are seeing the power in this, can I just get a yes in the comments below. You can also smash a like button for the YouTube algorithm. It just loves it when you do that. Also, if you're in the stage where you actually want to drive growth for your SaaS business, be sure to check out my five point SaaS growth Strategy guide. It's completely free. A link to it below. Your have to go anywhere right now. It'll give you details on the different ways to drive growth, including referrals. But right now let's go to principle number three.

That's a smash. I like button. It really loves it. And honestly, we put a lot of love in this video, so it means a lot when you actually smash it like button and put. Yes in the comments below. this one number three is now you actually want to establish your referral system. Part of it is just having that customer score that's super powerful. The second part is to actually get these customer referrals. There's three parts to this. The first one is you have to ask consistently, which means that every 3 to 6 weeks you want to be nudging your customers to ask them for a referral.

Now, needless to say, no one's going to do this manually, so you need to actually have a system in place that scores these customers and also asks them on a consistent basis. You're setting up a referral program like this and you want to score your customers and you actually want to ask them on a consistent basis. Be sure to use megaphone and megaphone is a software company that I own that I recommend. I believe in referral so much. I built a whole company around it and it helps you launch a referral campaign in minutes so you can actually score and then nurture your customers.

But you can't just ask. There's one more thing you also have to do. You actually need to make sure that you're incentivizing your customers. Now, this is something that I learned that was super non-obvious. The thing that I learned is if you run a traditional B2C referral campaign and you hit up your customer and say, Hey, I'm going to give you a $5 Starbucks gift card, can you refer me? They're going to say, my relationships with these peers, maybe you're selling to a VP of sales or CEOs or developers of a piece of engineering.

My relationship is worth way more than a $5 Starbucks gift card, and they'll be offended and they'll never refer you. So you want to get the incentive right. There are all kinds of different incentives that match up, but the best thing that I can tell you is you want to offer a non-monetary incentive. This actually makes it where it's a lot cheaper for you to run these referral campaigns. Incentives don't cost you a lot, but people value it more. Totally counterintuitive, but works really, really well.

The third thing you want to do is you want to pre-draft the referral email for them. So when you actually ask them, don't just say, Hey, can you give us a referral? It'd be awesome. The way you should do it is, Hey, can you give us a referral? For every successful customer you refer to us, you'll get this, incentive non-monetary but also I pre drafted the referral email for you. Just click on this link and you can send up the referral to your peers really, really easily. And just one click. These three things ensures that you actually get referrals flowing through where you get to that 20% rate, that target, 20% rate of word of mouth marketing and referrals flowing through.

And that is how you get the full flywheel of your SaaS business going. So let's recap. Step number one is you need to get to 100 customers. We don't know at least 700 customers don't mess around with an actual referral program. It's just too early. The numbers and the math just won't add up So in order to get to 100 or fast track and you want to make sure you have a proper go to market strategy, you want to make sure you've defined your ICP, you have a proper and differentiated message and you're running a consistent set of sales and marketing to it called the Broadway show to actually generate those customers and earn those customers.

As you start to win customers, you want to make sure that you're tracking if your customers are happy to collect NPS scores, see SAT scores and product usage. If you didn't do an engine megaphone can do this for you and assign a customer score. The low scores need some of the high scores need to be hit up on a referral campaign and that's where the third piece comes in consistently. Ask your customers for referrals. Give them a non-monetary incentive and predraft the referral email for them. Make it one click so they can just fire off that email to their peers and then move on and boom, just like that you have the full flywheel of growth going.

So now you know how to launch a proper referral program. And if you actually want to launch a referral program, you already have 100 customers. You should check out Megaphone, a link to it below. But also if you're in that stage where you're like, look, take referrals are just one of the ways I want to drive growth, but I need a proper go to market strategy. I need actually improve my go to market strategy. Maybe you have sales where you don't have marketing. All these pieces come together into a cohesive go to market strategy, And referrals are a part of that go to market strategy.

So if you're building out your go to market strategy and you want to actually scale, you go to market strategy, you want to get referrals going, be sure to grab a copy of my five point SaaSko strategy guide. It's completely free. It's my most important asset that I offer on this channel. It pulls together all the key pieces of building and executing on a scalable go to market machine so you can scale your SaaS business, including referrals. so grab your copy, just go to get unstoppable dot com slash strategy, get unstoppable dot com slash strategy.

It's completely free. It's an incredible guide. It's action packed and you can get access to it right away. Also, if you got value from this video, please smash it like button for the YouTube algorithm. It just loves it when you do that. Also, I drop an episode like this every single Sunday actionable strategies and tactics from the trenches on how to grow your SaaS business faster. And the reason I say trenches is I've built SaaS companies before I've exited them, I've helped exit other SaaS companies.

I've coached over 500 founders through my SaaS go to market coaching program and right now I operate two SaaS companies and we're actively scaling them. So I'm in the trenches with you and these are action packed principles that I bring to you that are battle hardened. I'm actually applying them in the field and I'm helping other founders actually apply them as well. And I love this stuff and that's why I bring it to you. So anyway, that's what I mean, right from the trenches. So be sure to hit that subscribe button and that bell icon.

That way you'll get notified every single time I drop an episode. And lastly, remember, everyone needs a strategy for their life and their business. When you are with us, yours is going to be unstoppable. I'm take it. I'll see in the next episode or inside the five point SaaS Growth Strategy Guide link below, along with the link to the six steps to building a go to market strategy and the link to launching your fall campaign with megaphone. All of them are below. See you in one of those. Take it.
