# Your Cold Calling Script Is Killing Your Pipeline

**Expert:** Donald Kelly

**Rank:** 2

**Metadata Score:** 117

**Published:** 2025-11-17

**Duration:** 00:29:03

**Views:** 19

**Likes:** 0

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OuCufgfDGZY

---

# Transcript

Imagine if your team had an 800% increase in the number of meetings that they had. Like just think about that. That would be absolutely crazy. Think about the number of deals that can be created. Think about the number of re much revenue you got you guys can generate. And think about the confidence in your team. My guest today, James Donaldson, did exactly this with one of his clients. And he's going to give us the playbook of what they did. You're going to love it. [music] Hey, hey, hey everyone.

Welcome to another great episode of the Sales Evangelist podcast. I'm your host, Donald C. Kelly, the Sales Evangelist, and I'm so excited for another great episode. I'm so excited to be here with you today. On this episode, I have James Donaldson and he runs an organization where they definitely are fans of cold calling and specifically building cold outbound teams and giving them the tools and necessary mindset that's going to help them to be as successful as possible. In this episode, he breaks down what they do, how they did it to help one of their clients get a 800% increase in the number of meetings that they were booking.

If this is your first time listening to the podcast, subscribe to our YouTube channel or to the wherever you're listening to the podcast. we'll make sure to notify you every time we drop a new piece of content. As we dive into this episode, you get a chance to learn about what James did for his client. You'll hear about the challenge that they have. And I feel that many of us fall in that same category where we just feel stuck and don't know where to go. If you find yourself in that area as well, you probably want to check out our mastermind.

We have a sales mastermind where sales reps get a chance to practice their sales pitch, get a chance to get help with objection handling, and get a chance to learn from other sales professionals. We meet for uh we meet for three months um and we meet weekly. It's an hourlong session. You do it during lunch and we get a chance to really help sellers like yourself to just just improve their game and practice. We'd love to have you find more details by going to the sales evangelist.com/mastermind. Again, the sales evangelist.com/mastermind for the end of the year.

We're cutting the prices. Uh and it's pretty significant. Would love to have you join us. Again, the sales evangelist.com/mastermind. Let's get a chance to learn a little bit more about what James is doing with the problem that they're facing with their clients. Check it out. James, welcome to the show, man. >> Hey, Donald. Good to be here. >> I was bragging with you about you a little bit there in the teaser and some of the things that you're doing, especially around cold calling. Um, this is uh an area that I find is one of the places that's actually working um right now.

Uh, if I were to pick my two, it would be LinkedIn and Cold Call. Um, those two are my top. Email, though, email is good, but it is run. It comes up as that third, right? Um, but there's a reason why you're so passionate about cold calling. Talk to me about that. >> Yeah, it's partly obviously there's a bias from from how you were trained, how you you were taught to do it, right? So, so that's where it probably started. But and I think your point on why cold calling and LinkedIn are so good because they're the most human.

>> You can at least with LinkedIn, you can see the person, you can read their background, there's that human touch. When you actually speak to someone on the phone, you can you can tell if someone's trustworthy, credible, you can get all that human interaction way way better. And it builds trust way faster than any other channel. And you know, I'm a big fan of talking to people. You want to talk, understand people before you try and you try and sell them stuff. >> Well, and I and I feel like there is uh I don't know when I when you're on a phone with someone, it's much harder to hang up that phone call than it is to delete the email or ignore it or not pay attention to that LinkedIn message.

I mean, not that we want to just pigeon hole people in a corner, but especially if you have something relevant, even if they're busy and you interrupted them, >> they're grateful for it because you just brought them something that they didn't know. I mean, didn't know they had a a solution there, a solution for it. >> They But you identified the problem and then now it's able to at least have a dialogue. And I find that I've gotten so many better conversation opportunities through the phone than I have through just sending aimless, you know, countless emails because there's I don't know.

It just something happens in that moment. Am I off on that? >> No, you're completely right. It's it's I I always say this to people that I that I coach and I work with is when [snorts] you're doing the cold calling, you're inviting someone into a two-way conversation and that is far more inviting. is so far more like successful than any other channel. You're inviting them to a two-way conversation. It's a real dialect and and you're going to get further. You're going to be able to present your ideas, show them that you're credible, and then lead with the reason why you're calling, why are you reaching out?

It's very then, you know, if you do those things right, it's very hard for people to be to ignore it like you say, to to hang up like you said. Um, and it's where all good all good relationships start, right, with a conversation. >> Well, you guys did this masterfully and as you see in the episode title, you guys had a 800% increase in meetings. Um, you 6xed your pipeline all through cold call. >> Mhm. [clears throat] Yeah. >> Take me back to the what in the world how did you do this um before? Let's let's go back to prior this happening.

>> Yeah. What was it like before this? I mean, obviously you guys were in chump change. You're obviously doing something well, but still yet now you you did something even better to get to 800%. Talk to me what it was like days before the 800%. >> Yeah, of course. So, this was actually with one of our one of our key customers, one of our favorite favorite customers. Really hardworking team, like first and foremost, real hardworking. They know exactly how their product can solve problems. They know exactly why they've built it.

they know exactly who they need to speak be speaking to or the various personas they can speak to. But what happens and this is often what what we see when we're working with companies is they have all this great product knowledge and they know how you know if this comes up I'm going to say this. If that comes up I'm going to say this. If that comes up I can talk about this feature. and you never quite get into the conversation enough to bring those things up anyway because the most important thing on the cold call is that initial introduction getting permission giving them something to be curious about and so life I guess you know the life before we made all the changes which I'm sure we're going to come on to >> was a lot of hard work but without any structure around the actual day-to-day prospecting of what you were trying to achieve.

So go go go deeper on that. Like what is that like? Am I just getting a list out of Apollo making a phone call? What was that like for this client before? >> So So you have a big database, you have big list of accounts which they're in the vertical that has good budgets. You know, classic a lot of people like try and sell to finance companies because they have money to spend. So, so you know, you build a list of accounts, you go to LinkedIn, you find contacts, you add them in, and then you call.

And then you add another one, you call them, you add another one, you call them. And even if you, you know, build a big list from maybe it's an Apollo, maybe it's a Zoom info, and you have this big target list of accounts. It's just cool, they didn't, they didn't, they connected or they didn't connect. And then I'll move on to the next one. I see more and more these days also people just relying on if there's a mobile number I call it. >> Yeah. >> And then if I can't get a mobile number I move on to the next contact.

If I do speak to somebody I need to try and book a meeting or I haven't in which case I'll forget about them. And that is when you're just then kind of spraying and praying is for lack of a better word. Right. And that's where we see teams really struggle to get traction and consistency. >> Is this what this client was like? >> Yeah. lot of hard work, bit of a spray and prey approach into the entire list of accounts that looked good but without measuring the number of dials into a specific prospect so they start so they can understand how many dials have they actually have they given that pro individual prospect enough effort versus know I always come back to the consistent effort over time that's what you're aiming for >> yeah what is that number is there a certain a benchmark that you try to look had for a number of dials.

>> Yeah, I typically like to use the benchmark of roughly within a 3-month period, you want to be trying to call that person at least into the double digits. So, 12 to 15 times, probably across those three months. No. And that doesn't mean caveat that heavily with that's not 15 times in one day. That's several times, several sever several different maybe off a couple of different numbers, different times across different different weeks, different dates. >> And you need to build your list. Going back to that the step before that on the spray and prey, you need to have a list that is a man manageable size so you can make roughly that number of dials across across a good number of accounts so that you're not just calling the same person every single day at the same time.

>> Yeah. And those [clears throat] are the little structural things I think people forget or don't realize they need to consider to have consistent outbound. >> Love it. Well, one of the we we had connected and you mentioned there's three things that you saw this client did and the first one was it was fascinating to me. It was around it's not just black and white like you mentioned that you got to shift the mindset the way you look at read exactly shift the mindset from black and white view of cold call.

Talk to me about this. You you emphasize followup in that. >> Yeah, absolutely. Most of the time when SDRs are told, start calling, try try and book meetings. >> That's all they're trying to do. So, they'll go into calls and you see it, they'll try and pitch somebody. They have my problem. They have the problems that we can solve. Can we have a meeting? Yes or no. So, I've either booked a meeting or there's or I haven't. And then they just move on. Whereas what they actually what you actually need to be doing is almost gaining the right to talk to them again or to follow up in the future.

So from no meeting and meeting if that's our scale there's maybe six or seven different outcomes within that which might be call me back in a year's time, call me back in 6 months, in 3 months is going to be better for us. Share me a bit more information around this area and then give me a call back. um actually let me go and talk to a colleague and then give me a call back next week or I'm the wrong person but hey Donald he he'd love to talk to you about this here's his number give that person a call and so when I talk about moving the mindset away from the black and white you need to move it more towards what what are all the gray areas what are the the things that could lead to a good conversation but maybe aren't right now maybe we need more context on so I can give you a call in x amount of time and that Consistent follow-up is what's going to allow you to move prospects into your funnel at the right time.

Because [clears throat] if you're just relying on that black and white, I can book a meeting or I can't. You're basically just hoping to hit people at the right time. On top of the right pitch, right pro positioning, you know, everyone's in the right mood that day. >> But it it seems like that's hard to track though, like the black and white one is easier to track. How do I one I know you said change of mindset. one the individual mindset as the change but also the sales leader mindset of the change and then two making sure we track and stay on top of that.

Am I making sense on this? >> Yeah, absolutely. It's all very good me saying, "Oh, change your mindset, change your mindset." So then everyone starts to do that. But you have it that creates more follow-ups, but it's only going to work if you know where those follow-ups are. >> A lot of people use tasks and CRM. I personally don't think that's the best way for SDRs to start to implement that because you just end up with that big red list of people haven't answered and you're changing it to tomorrow to tomorrow to tomorrow.

[snorts] >> Mhm. >> The way I often do it is I re will try and restructure the CRM so that most people are familiar with how to build you know a list view of accounts or a list view of contacts and then lead statuses. I will I will always change the lead statuses to reflect something much more much closer to the outcome of that call and how I'm going to reapproach them. So for me, there's typically email and call back, call back, a long-term call back, referral, and then you need to time stamp it so that each morning, if I start calling this week on a campaign or, you know, into a new list, every conversation I'm hopefully putting people into the right window to follow up with them.

So James, in a month's time, half of my meetings are going to come from people I've already spoken to um or half my conversations are. And then that's when you get that compound effect. So recharge the CRM contact level statuses timestamps. >> Love it. Um very interesting uh strategy to go about it. And I I I feel like when you say the mindset shift, I'm thinking about the leader as well. How she or he >> it can't just be well Donald you didn't book the appointment. It has I think you that all those measurable things has to happen or be able to be judged on how effective I am on my day-to-day basis because that's going to lead to those end results.

Am I making how do you approach that with these leaders that you work with? >> Yeah. So with the leaders, I think people will be pretty pretty familiar with the things they need to to measure, conversation rates, booking rates, all that type of stuff. But also start to look at how many status changes. If my if my STR's had 10 conversations today, how many status changes have they actually made against those contacts? That is going to be an indication of okay, we're actually creating other steps.

There's actually something came off the back of that. And [clears throat] then you want to start to structure structure the leadership's time with that team can start to gear towards more and more coaching on specifics of calls, the quality of calls, the follow-up. If someone has had five or six conversations today, all of those statuses have changed, but they're a little bit behind target. Well, you can go back to your metrics and look at look at the numbers and okay, x amount of dials to conversation to meeting.

So, this person should have booked a meeting, but when you listen to them and you see the notes and you see your status changes, if you can see that progress, well, you know, they're probably three meetings. They got three meetings in the bag for next week for for for whenever. And then you need to start looking at the conversion off the back of that because the theory and what I prove with clients I work with all the time, this will start to improve conversion rates further down as well. >> Interesting.

I I want to think about uh this is I love this and I I feel like any leader listening to this need to pay attention to that part and go back and play it again. Um but I want you to double tap on this this topic with cold calls and with the change of the mindset. Another mindset shift is apples. And let me preface this. I think I had it today. I got a call. Um, and I, you know, you're getting I'm getting these calls and I can push people to voicemail if I don't know who they are. And then obviously some of them are pushing up as spam if they don't have, you know, proper number.

But let's say I'm a seller. my number is clean and I go to this you know call this prospect I'm home mobile and it's I get that Apple wonderful Apple voicemail to introduce myself [laughter] how is this impacting um or what are your approach as we come to this era and in mindset adjustment >> yeah I think people need to just really make sure they're leading with value you know if if you're cold calling and you're being successful at cold calling you're probably leading with the problems talking about the value, maybe using referring to some other references and case studies or or whatever, making your intention for that call quite clear early on as well.

I'm a big fan of always saying, but want to see if any of that was relevant. If so, put some time aside at a later date. Do that on all my calls. So now with the Apple changes, if it comes up whilst you're calling, get thrown off. lead with the value and what you've maybe done for similar companies and keep it short and brief. You don't want somebody to have to listen to a whole pitch. It's not I think what people some people will be doing is panicking and thinking I have to pitch this now and then the person might come back to me and that's not human.

So just brevity value ask them to maybe get back to you if it's relevant. give them allude to maybe another avenue. Make it easy for them to pick up and engage or or cur spark curiosity. The worst thing to do is just panic and just put your pitch in earlier. >> And then and that's what I found and I'm speaking to for myself here. I've done that. Um where you're doing a bunch of cold calls, you automatically get a voice message and you panic and you don't you just go ahead and leave that generic voice message >> because that's I mean I I didn't know what to do at that point.

I was too busy playing uh a game on my phone while I was doing the call or look, you know, looking something up um playing on social media or whatnot. But that's interesting. So um I go back again fundamental thing there. Lead with a value >> privacy >> and brevity. You don't need to give them all that there is. >> You talked about this idea too. I want to go to number two cuz this client that you guys saw this 800% increase with you mentioned that you guys that in order for a company to get to those type of results they must have a repeatable structure for cold call.

[clears throat] >> Can you define or explain to me what that repeatable structure is? I know you talked about a little bit early on where we you know how we go about finding stuff but can you go a little bit deeper on that? >> Yeah, of course. So, [snorts] and you know there's now there's so many tools now uh AI tools like second body I know hyperrowth the dialers or nooks they have these conversational AIs so you can literally train these to have a persona that will go like try and force your team to stick to the structure a bit more but so you can set it up for however you want and I've seen various var like lots of variations of this but I always try and go with introduction and permission once you've got that permission to speak you you're not an interruption, it's not an awful time.

Um, they're happy for you to elaborate on why you were calling. Then it's the problems you solve, who you usually solve those for. Those are the bits that need to be spark curiosity. And then one sentence on we help by doing this or we are a whatever. That bit needs to be really brief. And then this is where I think I normally differ to not everyone but to some companies these days or some coaches is that's part of your pitch and then at the end of your pitch you need to say that you were looking for hoping to have a meeting if it was relevant because that signals to the prospect hey I wasn't calling to have a long conversation now you for you to tell me everything about your cyber security instance right now I'm looking to just build some familiarity, introduce myself and if it's a good use of your time and we can agree on that, put half an hour aside next week or in the week after.

It's about signaling your intent and that gets you that will get you into a good two-way conversation nine times out of 10 and from there you can assess when or if it's a good good call. >> Yeah, it's not given go back to I think this the idea behind this too is the brevity. You're not given everything all at once. Um but also it's it's leading on top of the other. Um >> I find like >> especially junior seller they feel they have to share everything while that person said hello. Um because it's the scarcity mindset that I'm going to lose them.

They're going to hang up. >> But I if I don't do that with my friends, I don't call you up and say, you know, hey James, it's Donald. This weekend I want to go out and go uh play go to basketball game because you know you know this could happen. Um what do you think? I'm not giving you everything at once because I know you're going to be like, "Hey, what's up DK? What's going on?" You're going to shoot the breeze for whatever. In this case, you're not necessarily shooting a breeze, but you're making it natural.

And I hate those fake ones where they try to, you know, be friends. But in your case, this is >> you're you're you're simply telling me who you are, you're asking me, getting the permission, um, can I share? And then you're going into the next step, who you help, the why you're, um, reaching out to me um, point of it. And that's sequential because that permission to talk is engagement. And that piece, even though it's not a huge engagement, that little thing is engagement >> because then now they're listening for that why.

>> And then at the end of that why, I'm sure you have a question that you ask them. >> Yeah. >> That gets them to respond. >> And then at that point, we're going to decide if we go a, you know, blue pill or green, red pill, right? They take it or not. at that point. Am I am I making sense there? >> Yeah, absolutely. And I can completely agree and it you know use slightly different language to me and it just proves my point like anyone who's been really successful on the phone, they have that very similar structure where for me that question at the end of that pitch is always I wanted to see is that relevant?

If so, could we put some time aside? That means that whatever happens after that, normally where people do the objection handling and you know, uh, prospects start to tell you about their world, it's already set up for, hey, together we're trying to work out if it would be a good use of time to put something in the diary. It's not me just trying to ask for a meeting, trying to ask for a meeting, trying to say, can I show you my demo? Can I show you this next week? And to your point, you know, that's that scarcity mindset which when you know people are early in their careers or even when they just got a big target on their back, >> feeling the pressure, that's when it comes in and you just keep asking.

It's like >> you're actually doing yourself a disfavor. I always like to caveat that with you have to ask or make it clear you hoping to have a meeting at some point on that call. >> Yeah. And I think that piece is it's it's it's important, but it's it's not pushy, but I'm giving you my intention. um >> exactly >> of you know why um why we're meeting. I want to go into the the one of the other points you gave me. The last point you gave me was you gave them the right struct CRM structure for cold calling.

>> Yeah. >> What does that even mean? Like >> like my CRM is a CRM. Like [laughter] what's the structure of my CRM for cold call? So most CRM are great are set up and they're great for you know deal management, pipeline management, customer management and your SDRs like one of the simple things is you're trying to you want to reduce the number of clicks they have to make between dials. So if they have to they've got their list of accounts but then they have to go into the account and then navigate from there to find the contacts and then go to the contacts and then they have to click to pull up the LinkedIn page and then they make a call.

You're going to be slowing them down. You want to make a nice clean view for them and and I can do this in any CRM done in pretty much most CRM that people will be using these days that you want to be able to have all the list list of accounts with all of the contacts and their contact data visible on the same same tab, same view. So I can work consistently through that list. As soon as I get off a call, I need to be able to put my notes in and update the status and the time stamp and then I can move on.

You want to minimize all of their effort to that. You can pretty much do that all from that one view. Um, it's really easy to do in Pipe Drive and HubSpot. You can do it in Salesforce as well. Takes a little bit more tweaking to set that up, but it means you're it's like putting on a headset and getting logged in. They're logged into that screen. Cool. >> I know exactly where I am. I know exactly who other whilst I'm calling this person, I know exactly who else I've spoken to. I can see the other statuses.

I know where I'm going next. And you start to build more familiarity with that list. And that's going to help increase, you know, confidence in the list, focus, and that also starts to feed into that compound effort over time. >> I like that. But how do long if I'm a if I'm a sales leader, I'm listening to this, how long does it take me to set get that setup going or how do I start doing that setup? Any advice? Maybe maybe depends a little bit on who you know how capable your CRM admin is. It's a day a two day two days of work like focused work.

As long as assuming you have the right accounts already, if you have the right accounts and the right contacts, it's a day's work. If you don't have the contacts, you think you might have the accounts, it's a couple days work just to do the initial analysis. Chunk that up into typically lists of 100 accounts at a time. That's a sort of a manageable list amount and means that the team will do consistent work into that before you give them more data. So you're avoiding that spray and prey. >> You mentioned to me before that there is the they need the correct tools and also consistent training.

>> Yeah, >> go deeper on that one for me. Um t because this is tied back to the CRM structure. >> Exactly. everything we just spoken about that is going to make it easier for your reps to do you know do the role work consistently make more calls have more conversations update notes so that if we can focus them in that way through the structure and stuff it means you're going to you should have more time to do coaching to upskill the team you know it's people process tech you have to find time to coach upskill the team and if you can set up the CRM so they can make more calls, have more conversations.

You're going to hear them doing more more calls. Give them feedback immediately. If you're in an office, give them feedback whenever you get the chance, every time they get off the call. It only has to be a small thing, but you're building that, I guess, that neural pathway, that familiarity with taking feedback, which is going to help them upskill and it's going to encourage them. It's actually quite good getting DK to tell me when he tells me this off a call. So actually they'll start to be more proactive and this is that a lot of what I talk about and focus on whenever I'm building you know outbound sales teams are going to be doing more more prospecting.

So it's where can we find like areas of consistent feedback loops which leaves more coaching and helps them focus more. That's the whole reason we built built our business. >> Well I love this man. If there's 800% increase in meetings is pretty dope. I'm sure that client was uh pretty happy with you. >> Yeah. [laughter] >> Uh from getting >> still with us. So yeah, they're doing pretty well. They're doing pretty well. >> Doing pretty well. If there's one piece of advice you would give to a sales leader or a sales rep listening to this episode and they're um craving for that, even if it's like a 100% increase in uh appointments, what's that one major piece of advice you give them?

>> Work out a consistent structure and a consistent f like way to focus. probably a better way of saying this, remove as many distractions that aren't to do with contacting, speaking to more people and then asking for feedback on those conversations. Anything that doesn't contribute to that is is noise. >> Love it. [snorts] Listen, James, thank you so much for coming on the show today. If folks are trying to get in touch with you to learn a little bit more about what you guys are doing, h how do they go about connecting with you?

>> Yeah, best place to learn about us and the business, stacky.io io. Um, or you know, I'm always on LinkedIn. My mobile number is not hard to find at all, so feel free to call me. >> All right, James, thank you so much for coming on the show today. Appreciate this. >> Thanks for having me. Been great. [music] That was James Donaldson. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, man, delivered some good insights today. If you haven't done so already, go ahead and follow him on LinkedIn. You can check out his company as well.

We have their link in the show notes, which gives you an opportunity to learn about them. And we also have a unique way to look at the show notes. We have a Q&A. So if there's certain questions that you have from this episode, your questions probably were created in it. So you can check out the Q&A portion of the show notes um to get some uh quick answers at a glance um to some of the content uh some of the questions that may pop up um from this episode. Listen, I want you to thrive. I want you to succeed.

I want you to be successful. Most importantly, I want you to raise your level of thinking. I want you to build pipeline. I want you to close more deals and go out and do big things. See you on the next one. [music] >> [music]
