# I'm Running Out of Time & My Pipeline Is Weak | Donald Kelly

**Expert:** Donald Kelly

**Rank:** 3

**Metadata Score:** 115

**Published:** 2026-02-19

**Duration:** 00:13:33

**Views:** 40

**Likes:** 0

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ix13D3pSdM4

---

# Transcript

Your pipeline looks like crap. You feel really unproductive and you're frustrated right now with where your sales is. I'm going to tell you why based on performances and answer a question. Hopefully, this can help you out too. Hey, hey, hey everyone. Welcome to another great episode of the Sales Evangelist podcast. I'm your host, Donald C. Kelly, the sales evangelist, and I'm so excited for another great episode. I'm so excited to be here with you today. On this episode, I'm going to be talking about a topic that many of us face as sales reps.

You feel like you're wasting your time. You're spinning your wheels and nothing is happening. You're not gaining traction and it's getting frustrating and your days feel like it's just so unproductive. You start off doing something in the morning and next thing you know the end of the day and you have nothing new added to the pipeline. What is going wrong? I'm going to give you some ideas, things that I've experienced personally, things that I've coached people on and hopefully they can help you as well.

Well, I know they can. Now, if this is your first time listening to our podcast, watching one of our videos, go ahead and subscribe. I'm going to make sure every time we drop a new piece of content that you're notified, you can listen to it. You can check it out. You can apply it. Now, none of this stuff is going to help you unless you apply it. None of them. You have to apply the things that you learn. And I want to stress this to you and push you so you can make sure you're seeing some results.

You should connect with me on LinkedIn as well. You can find me up there on LinkedIn, Donald C. Kelly. Now, let's dive into this thing. The question comes around feeling unproductive. Um every day start off the day nothing is working out for me by the end of the day I feel like I'm doing 10 million tasks getting whiplashed by my manager doing you know different initiative different responsibilities and my pipeline is empty uh it was good at few months ago but right now it's weak um any thoughts well I got plenty of thoughts on this one but let me give you some so if you find yourself in this situation here's what I want to tell you the important piece here you got to prioritize your time.

I mean, it's not just, but you got to prioritize your time. You the the way I fixed this as a sales rep, cuz I remember when this happened, and I'll give you the the lay of the land. You come into the office, you may have well intention, or you're starting working from home, you start working, and you feel you have well intention, but then you get distracted. Now, you're home, you have different things that could take you take your way your time. Your laundry, you got somebody calling, you got delivery uh folks coming by, you can go do the dishes, you can go and uh, you know, run to the store.

you're doing so many different things that's distracting you from your core responsibility which is to sell. The second piece to that too is that you don't have a lot of real business driving activities. And then the third thing that I would tell you is that you're not thinking of yourself like a CEO. So I want to let's actually bring that up to number one. What happened with me? I saw I remember the day when it h not the exact day but I remember when it clicked in my head working at this company and I uh the software company that I was with and I realized that as a sales rep even though I was a W2 I really was a independent contractor I was a franchisee and once I started thinking like that it wasn't necessarily the case I mean you're making your W2 but what I started thinking about it was I'm not going to make any more money unless I get more commission and the way the guy got I got to do it is that I got a territory This company has given me the tools.

They're giving me the software. They giving me the tech. They're giving me the support team and I have all of that in my control over this territory and my job is to find people and sell this product to them. I have the skills to do that. I've been equipped with it and they will take care of the fulfillment. I just have to find them. And I changed the mindset to think yes, I'm going to make the money, but I'm getting 10% of 100,000. Fair enough. I'm also getting the whatever I was getting at that point for my base salary.

So I that's a it's it made me feel like this is my business, my territory, my area. I want it to succeed. I want to compete against my other team members. Once I changed that perspective, I started to behave different because here's what happened though. It's not like you you think you only have several levers and I in some some ways you you might just only have those. But just think beyond it for just hear me out for a sec. You're going to say, "I have the phone. I can send out emails. I can use LinkedIn." And that's it.

That's your only leverage that you can utilize to make your business grow. But you got to think about that. If this is your business, if this is your business, what would you do different? If you had the control of this full territory, this is your franchise, and you put like uh, you know, $200,000 into this franchise for it to be successful, what would you do differently to make that area work? And one of the things that I'll tell you is that you're going to do this goes to the number two item.

You will probably have more selling activities throughout the day straight up because the distraction starts to come. Laundry is good and all and uh you know getting some food. You obviously I'm not saying you not to eat. You need to eat. You need to get your mindset. You need to do some work out. Do some of that stuff in the morning. But when it comes to the prime time, say you're going to start work from 8:00 or 8:30 or 9 and you're going to go till 4:30, 5:00. In that window, you got to make sure you stacked with sales performance activity.

what we find I think in the latest sales sales force state of sales let me see if I can pull it up here it was a ridiculous number of time uh that this has been talked about over and over I think only 30% of a sales rep's time see I want to find the exact quote it's like only 30% of a sales rep's time is actually spent selling 30% of a sales rep time here we go this I changed this lie how sales reps spend their time during the average workday um and this is again stuff that you probably have known instinctively it is 22% of the day on average work week work week so this is a whole week of your week 40 30 22% of your week is going to be spent doing customer uh meeting with customers okay I put that in green I call that selling activities they do too prospecting is 18% generating net new pipeline is 18% % The next one is then quote uh creating quotas or excuse me creating quotes in you know proposal depend on your industry 17% planning is 16%.

Manual entry data 13% updating CRM and so forth training 11%. Hey I would love that but I guarantee a lot of you ain't doing 11% of training in each week. Well some if you're listening to this podcast yes you are. But I I know some sales rep they ain't doing any of that and you know them too. You see them on your team and 3% other. Now when you look at that 60% is doing non-selling activity. 40% is doing selling activity. Now when you come to the selling activity there's different they not all selling activities are creating equal anything dealing with the customer selling to the customer working with the customer meeting with the customer I should say.

Those are good you not going to change that. But can you be more efficient? And that's another story for another day. But this is a core of your responsibility. So, we want to make sure that that keeps intact and we maximize those experiences and that's for another episode and we can do that. But the prospecting part, what are the most meaningful prospecting activity? First off, prospecting should be on the calendar. So, if this is the case, you should probably put C prospecting for maybe, you know, put it a couple hours in the morning or in the afternoon or change it throughout the day.

And I shared this on a different episode, so I'm not going to go deep on that. But the point I'm trying to make for this is that you need to make sure that you're prospecting every single day because what happens, and I felt this, I've got this too because of the whiplash and because I don't, you know, I I had so many other things going on and the different initiatives from the management and then I have like uh, you know, I'm putting these quotas together, uh, the these quotes together. I'm doing all these other stuff that I don't do prospecting.

my pipeline then over the next couple of weeks becomes weak um and meager and it's just go back to the simple fact that I didn't discipline myself to do prospecting every day to always feed the beast. It's not now that you're looking at it for your future self for your next week. How many appointments do you have on my calendar? I literally change the color of my sales my new um business development activities to light green. If I'm meeting with a client it's a dark green. This allows me to be able to see that these are money generating activities, but it also allow me to be able to quickly look at my calendar from a glance and say this is going to help me to be successful.

I mean, this is what my successful week looks like. And I can tell from a quick glance, do am I doing things that's going to help my future self in the next couple of weeks or next quarter or am I not? And the moment that I don't have much green on my calendar, I saw that I see that it start to decline. You got to make sure you happen. It happens because I think like a CEO that is own my own business as my territory and then I make sure I'm putting the right um outreach and right business development activities focusing on those during a prime time.

It makes a big difference. Now the distractions go back to that. You're going to have those. So you have other you have things like your manager going to tell you to do these things. You're going to have to do some stuff at home. I get that. But the key though, you got to make sure you take if you're not hitting, you got to put a plan. And and I'm not just pushing my own tool here, but because of the question, you got to check out prospectpro.io. It is totally free. It's my software. Totally free.

I created it because of the spreadsheet that we give to our team. But Prospect Pro, just like it sounds, P R O S P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P E T prospect. Yeah, am I spelling that right? Team's looking at me funny right now. Yeah. So, there you go. I have to write it out. prospect. There you go. P R O S PRO.io. Now, what this does, it allows for you to be able to track your daily performance. It's a manual thing, but at the end of the day, just put in there simply like, I made the, you know, look at your CRM.

I did this many calls. I did this many outreach activity. I did this many things on LinkedIn. What happens at the end is that now you can be able to quickly see at a glance that I did all the things because it gives you a ratio, right? So it might say for every five outreach activity you do, you get three con two conversations. Great. And for every uh one every 10 uh conversations you or every three conversations you have, you get an appointment. Awesome. So now you know where you are going to where you're going to be and what performance you need to be at to get the appointments you need to then get the opportunities you need after that.

Because maybe every uh you know three discos you get one opportunity then great. So you now you've seen you can work backwards and now you can get your numbers and the software can help you to make the understanding to say every week every day I got to put in my my 20 or 30 activities because that's going to help to feed the beast that you can get the results and it's not too complicated at that point but it's focus outreach focus um on the right people and you're measuring and then once you can measure you can start seeing the result.

So now that you have that in place you got to be willing to discipline eliminate the things that are not going to be critical. So, here's what I have done for some of those. I just don't do them. And what I start Well, let me back up. You're probably going to say, "Donald, my manager going to get me if I don't do the reports." Well, I don't do them at that time. I push them off to another time where I can that is my downtime window because what happens is that the priority time, prospecting window, maybe that's the core of my day, the my big rock, so to speak, if you want to go back to a Steven Covey concept.

If I don't put that in my calendar, what happens is the byproduct is that the non-essential activities start outbeating the essential activities and then I have pip uh pipeline inconsistency um over the next several weeks. It doesn't show right away, but it shows over the next several weeks. And that's the problem that happens with it. You got to nip it in a bud right away. So, I'll wrap up here, but the thing I want to tell you is one, think of your pipeline as if your territory as if you're the owner of that business, that franchise, and you put $200,000, a4 million dollars into this, and you need to get your money back.

Number two, you got to make sure you focus on the right activities in that time period because you're spending only certain amount of your time doing sales stuff. The whole day is not doing uh actually selling. As you can see from the data, it's six say 40% of that day is actually doing sales stuff and 60% is doing unnecessary well unselling non-elling activity and those are critical as well but you can quickly get distracted from it. And then three you got to you got to make sure you track that in that same one.

And the third one um is the simple fact is that you just got to be disciplined to move the things that are not necessary to a non-essential time period because you I I can't tell you that you're not going to do the things um that you have there. You got to do laundry, you got to eat, and you got to do um you know those reports, but do they need to be done during the prime time? Make it the last 30 minutes of your day. That's when I do the planning. Look at the next day. Maybe you do the you know portion of that or whatever.

Yeah, but I I just don't want you to do it during your prime time um of your day. Listen, this is not too complicated and that question hopefully helps you to be able to help get back on track to build a pipeline and that you're not getting distracted so much. This has helped me and I want to help you. As always, I want you to thrive. You could check out prospectpro.io. It's totally free. It's my software that I use with vibe coding because it's something that helped my clients and I gave giving it out for free for everyone.

You can check it out. prospectpro.io prospectpro.io you can check that out. Listen, as always, I want you to thrive. I want you to succeed. But most importantly, I want you to raise your level of thinking. I want you to go out and do big things. See you on the next one. [music]
