# The 3 Types of Cold Emails That Are Landing Meetings in 2025 | Donald Kelly

**Expert:** Donald Kelly

**Rank:** 4

**Metadata Score:** 108

**Published:** 2025-05-19

**Duration:** 00:14:41

**Views:** 60

**Likes:** 0

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YUpUsE6VOto

---

# Transcript

DK, what can I do to make sure when I send an email, the prospects actually enjoy it and reply back? This is a question I'm going to answer on today's episode. Check it [Music] out. Hey, hey, hey everyone. Welcome to another great episode of the Sales Evangelist podcast. I'm your host, Donald C. Kelly, the sales evangelist, and I'm so excited for another great episode. I'm so excited to be here with you today. On this episode, I want to talk to you about this idea of emails. I feel that there's three buckets that we should try to get our email that emails are in, and I'll tell you which one I feel is the best in order to make sure the email get better responses.

If this is your first time listening to our podcast, I appreciate that. Thank you so much. Please go ahead and subscribe and share it with someone else. And if you are enjoying the podcast and you have been for years, thank you so much. Please go ahead and tell others about the show. and uh I would appreciate you connected on LinkedIn. Drop me a message. Let's dive in and let's talk about it. When it comes to emails right now, emails, the average customer and prospect that you're going after and I'm going after probably getting anywhere from 100 to 200 emails per day.

And that's not being um and and and that's not an understatement um or not just trying to say this to to um I guess I guess could be an understatement but I'm not just saying this to just be flippant with the matter. The prospects are getting a lot of emails and the data has shown it's anywhere between that number. It's been up to over 100 150 but the way that we have seen an increase nowadays that number could definitely be up into the 200s. the re and I'm counting not only their work email but their personal emails and then also emails that are going into the junk or spam folder.

So there's a lot you have internal communications like for instance I might send an email between me and the client and f and team members and that might be five six emails. So there you go five six there and you do this times three that's 15 emails going through in one day it becomes nauseating at times. So, when you send an cold email to a prospect, what do you need to do to ensure that that email actually gets open? I've been playing with some emails and I can't give you a definitive data yet, but there's three strategies.

There's three buckets that I'm putting my emails in or that I've noticed that emails fall into. Number one is the probing email. Number two, relevant email. And then number three, it's a referral. So, let me define each of them. The probing email is, I don't know if you have a problem or not. I don't even know if you're an exact fit, but I do know that you are my ICP. Um, you fall in a demographic, and I'm going to probe to see if you have interest. This is probably the weakest type of email out there.

And and this is where I feel most emails land. Most people are most sellers, we are we we don't have a crystal ball, so we can't necessarily tell exactly. We're using tools that can help us identify intent. However, when it comes down to it, we are still doing a lot of probing. Now, when we decide that that uh we're not getting the best result from the probing, what we decide to do is to elevate or increase that that the number of emails that we're sending out because such a small percentage of people would say, "Yeah, I'm interested." So, if I send in 100 emails and I'm getting a 1% return u that's you can do the math.

It's not that pretty. Um you're getting one reply um off of that. Maybe let's say you're being generous. I'm being generous with you. You're probably getting like a reply rate of like, you know, 3%. So, again, three emails is reply back. Not that crazy. But you might say, well, I would need more replies because I know if I have um for every five replies, let's just let's keep it number simple. For every three replies I'm getting, one person would be uh would be interested. So now you might say, well, I'm going to send out 300 emails so I can get three people that are interested.

But the thing that happens is that the way this game works now is that you're never ever going to go back down to a lower number. you're going to keep the the the more we send out email, the more prospects get annoyed by those emails and you get put in spam or they simply just don't reply. So that that return over time decreases. So you're instead of getting that you know three 100 emails and you get a 1% or 3% reply rate maybe your reply rate dropped down to a 2%. Because again of all the hundreds of email and then this think about it when we are accentuates this with automation and with AI it becomes even more uh um even more annoying to the prospects.

So we have so many more emails. So the probing emails become less and less effective. The only way that improves is if we if you keep probing, we're going to send hundreds more or thousands uh more emails. Again, there are tools out there, but we just don't want to send garbage to prospects because that doesn't necessarily uh tie back to us getting a better reply. Is there is there benefit of probing? Yeah. I mean, again, if I don't know anything, that's at least that I'm going to do. But that's the it's the lowest level of uh cold outreach um that we're going to do.

The second level is what I call relevant. So I still don't know you yet. I don't have a direct contact with you. However, based on certain behaviors, the message I'm sending is going to be quick, a little bit more relevant. So let me give you an example of the first one probing and then we'll come back into the relevance. So a probing email may sound something like uh many of the customers that we work with in the financial space are dealing with XYZ challenge. Is this something that you're facing right now?

So it again I I don't know per se, but I sound wishy-washy. So I am I'm I'm really just trying to identify if there's a problem. Let's go into the relevant issue now. So now I look at specific triggers and my relevant list is not going to be as big as my probing list. Perhaps I had, you know, several hundred on my probing list because again, I'm just shooting into the wind right now, right? Trying to figure stuff out with the shotgun approach. But when I come to the relevant, I am relevant at there's two levels.

Relevant at scale and relevant um a little bit more detail. The relevant at scale may be based on triggers that I might find a prospect for might have. So let's say I'm reaching out to people who have HubSpot for in instance and I know that people who have HubSpot and I and you could probably find this through tools such as uh sales navigator. They have an amazing uh component that can help you to identify extensions or there companies uh tools out there on the web where you can search and identify organiz what kind of u you know a tech stack an organization has.

So you can identify these components and let's say I'm making this up so don't get mad at me HubSpot but let's say that I'm going after people with HubSpot and usually um they have an issue with their customer service portal um and we have I'm with Zenesk or something like that and I can compete with HubSpot. I could identify the problem that I know that HubSpot users have when it comes to their customer service and I can use Zenesk uh messaging towards that. So, it may sound something like, you know, Dave, um, I Dave, I know, uh, HubSpot tend to be, and I'm not asking at this point, I'm speaking with confident because I know they have it.

Dave, I know HubSpot tend to have a little issue when it comes to I have a, um, tend to be a little more convoluted when it comes to their customer service portal. Um, one of the biggest issue is blank and blank. Um, I would love to set up I would love to show you how that can easily be fixed. Um, would you be open to learning more? Now again, this is relevant because Dave is over customer support and customer support is the one that faced this issue. And I know this because I work with other clients that have that same issue.

Um, and I'm using that at scale. And I can use that at scale because I can always just make a big list of relevant uh of HubSpot organizations that have uh new uh customer service directors or existing customer service directors who in a certain industry and I can speak to that. Now my email sounds more relevant because it's a tie into a trigger and tie into a specific problem that that industry might have. I do that at scale. I can also do a little bit more relevant if I got more intel towards that particular thing.

So perhaps I speak with a low-end person in the organization. Now this this list of the more precise u relevant emails this is going to it's not going to be a huge list um but the outcome or percentage of outcome would be greater. So your appointment setting and your conversation will be a lot better percentage- wise. So let's say I have on this list I have uh 10 in companies because I called in and I spoke with a low-end individual that complained about the uh service management feature in HubSpot.

Again, HubSpot, I'm making this stuff up, so don't get mad. I love HubSpot and they have a great service management tool, but just go along with me. But um if that's the case, then I'm going to um I'm going to get some intel that I can utilize. The person that I get intel from, a low-end employee, um an end user, they're probably not going to be the ones high on a totem pole to make a decision, but the insight that I get allows me to be more specific. So, I can say something. This is where my email become relevant.

So, we know the HubSpot challenge. We know the customer service. We know we're reaching out to the the director. and I know I got some intel perhaps that um they've lost customers, right? So now I'm making that relevancy even more so and they're trying to improve that um you know their their retention rate. So I might say I know retention rate is something that um Donald and Co are really concerned about right now. HubSpot has some limitations on how they can go about uh you know helping with customer support.

Um I we have a way that can fix that that can reduce your churn rate from you know drop it from you know 10% and drop it to drop it by two to three uh decimal points or uh percentage points. Um would you be open to learning more about that or can I show that to you or one of your team members? Now again I know more intel so I'm speaking directly towards their situation and that's how I make a email relevant. That email tends to be better or the relevant at scale tend to be better. Now, a third level email, this is like super, this is referral straight up.

And that's where anyone would like to have it. And there's two sides of that. Referral from an internal source or referral from an external source. Again, this number may not be as high, but you can do all three of these approaches as well. So, my external my email at uh referral email may be from that internal person I spoke with my relevancy. And I can say maybe they gave me permission. And I can say um you know Mary I spoke with Lisa in marketing and or the you know um in customer support team and she mentioned this challenge in my subject line I'm going to put um Lisa told me to connect with you get permission from Lisa to do so but this again it's a referral and obviously the next level referral with that and in that email I'll just be straight up with her like spoke to um who am I prospect spoke with Lisa right or Mary whoever spoke to the the customer service support mentioned that this was a challenge that you guys are facing.

I know you're coming in new into the role and it's some, you know, trying to fix challenges um and to reduce the churn rate. Um we can help you to do so by anywhere from 3 to four percentage points um would be open to a call with me and you to be able to share this or um bring Lisa or Mary into it as well, whatever. But the point though is that email is now way more relevant and it's a referral so there's a higher chance. And then the the big top-notch level of referrals is if somebody refer you.

So, if I have a customer that used our solution or I'm using LinkedIn Sales Navigator and I'm able to go in and see people who've past customers that's um been with us and maybe they, you know, reconnect with them in their new company or whatnot and they refer me to someone else in their organization, the new organization, that is a direct referral. And I'll ask, can you give an introduction? And then maybe Bob says, "Hey Bob, um, hey Germaine, I want to introduce you to Donald. He he and I worked at our last company and I feel that he could really help us with our um customer support.

They help us lower the percentage points. We can do we'd love to be able to do that. Now, those that level of email is going to get a way better response rate um from it. This is what we're playing with internally. But here's the thing, like how do you go about doing this? You're probably thinking, well, I I don't know how to start this, Donald. First look, use sales navigator and look at some of your ideal um some of your contacts, your past customers and see if you can get anyone that um is connected with uh you know customer service directory.

You can find this all in LinkedIn sales navigator. Um find look at your contacts and see uh so you can put uh search for communica um not communications a customer service director, customer service reps and then search from people in your network um based on contacts you might have and then you can find individuals and get referrals that way. If you did that once a week, you could probably get three, four, five, six referrals. That's great. Your second level is that you're going to do the referral at scale.

Excuse me, the uh um relevant at scale. So you identify uh specific niche uh com industry niche uh challenges that they might be facing with a niche product and you can do that as maybe you get 50 60 people at that point. And then your top level um where you're doing a wider net, you're casting and you're probing that probing email. You probably need to send a lot more to a lot more individuals. When you're doing all of those together and you're doing phone calls in between, you cannot tell me that you're not going to get some opportunities.

It's going to work tremendously. So again, the three levels are your probing, your relevant and relevant at scale and relevant um precise, and then your referral and referral um direct referral. I would love to hear your feelings on this. Go ahead and drop me a message on LinkedIn and let me know if you're trying these or if you're willing to experiment and test them out and see if this can what kind of results you get as well. As always, I want you to thrive. I want you to succeed. I want you to be able to gain more opportunities.

I want you to be successful in your role because I didn't have that at first and I'm grateful for tools and uh communities that help me to do so. And I want you to thrive and succeed as well. I want you to raise your level of thinking. I want you to go out and do big things. See you on the next one. [Music]
