# B2B Salespeople Are Doing This Wrong | B2C Has the Answer

**Expert:** Donald Kelly

**Rank:** 7

**Metadata Score:** 94

**Published:** 2025-12-02

**Duration:** 00:34:18

**Views:** 40

**Likes:** 2

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yrPavUsyCLo

---

# Transcript

Imagine if we can steal some ideas from the B2C world that we can apply to B2B that can fill your funnel and help you to get way more opportunities than you're getting right now. Increasing sales, generating more commission, you get the point. Would you be interested? Well, that's exactly what we're going to talk about on this episode. Check it out. Hey, hey, hey, everyone. Welcome to another great episode of the Sales Evangelist podcast. I'm your host, Donald C. Kelly. a the sales evangelist and I'm so excited for another great episode.

I'm so excited to be here with you today and on this episode I have Cam Dani. Now Cam and I we connected. He was a Silicon Valley sales rep. Reached out to me, you know, beautiful email knows what he was doing um and was able to grab my attention. Super uh just super uh personalized and it was attractive to a salesperson. Um and I was able to connect with them. I thought him made total sense on how he saw BTOC strategies that can apply to B2B and literally he's making handover fist with the money that he's doing right now in his business applying these concepts.

Um, no matter what type of business you're in, B2B tend to be laggers in comparison to what some of the BTOC world's doing and I wanted to explore this conversation. Now, if this is your first time listening to our podcast, I want to help you understand that we designed the show to be able to help you one, build pipeline, and two, accelerate deals through the pipeline. Today's episode is going to follow around how you can build deals and accelerate deals through the pipeline. It's a little bit combination of both, but Cam comes at it a unique way.

If you haven't done so already, subscribe to the show, reach out to me on LinkedIn and connect. I'm on here right now, and I would love to connect with you um and to to chat and learn a little bit more about your business. I want to give a shout out to some folks um that has recently connected with me on LinkedIn. Um it's pretty legit. I'm telling you, I do it all. I I take care of my LinkedIn so you can get on there and see me. But Dalton Danks, uh thanks so much. Appreciate the connection um on LinkedIn.

And I want to give a big shout out to JR McFarland. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Craig Bowman, appreciate it. Thanks for hitting me up. Lisa Miller, uh means a lot. can't wait to learn a little bit more about your success. And also, Julia, thank you. Thank you so much for connecting with me. If you want to do so as well, go ahead and drop me a message on LinkedIn. Don't just follow, but drop a an actual connection request. As we dive into this episode, Cam goes into a story, how he was a Silicon Valley 7 figureure sales rep, sales rep, and how he was able to get transition into what he's doing now.

but the process specifically. What are some of the challenges we're seeing in B2B and how those are improving in the B2C world? Check it out. Cam, welcome to the show. Donald, thanks for having me. Real quick before we jump in, guys, I want to make this exciting and entertaining for everybody here. I'm somebody that went from a quarter million a year in tech sales to seven figures a year as an entrepreneur and investor. So, if that sounds interesting to you, stay tuned. Wee. He came out swinging.

Guys, this is good. This is good. And that's why I like having you because it's it's unique. It's different. Um, and it's not just like some stale I wrote a book on how to close my five-step process. This is uh and no offense to anyone who wrote a book on five steps closing. It's probably really dope. But I like this this conversation where we're going. Um, I bragged about you a little bit in the teaser and about your background coming from the uh Silicon Valley world. Um, talk to me about that for a little bit.

You alluded to that in your your quick intro there. >> Yeah. So, um, originally from Menllo Park. Um, natural path was to go and work for a tech startup. My first startup that I worked at was Veh. Uh, basically a fintech company that Google and Goldman Sachs invested in. And throughout my entire tech sales career, I worked my way up from, you know, SMB sales to mid-market to uh, eventually the enterprise and strategic levels. And I found that I always had this itch to do more as an entrepreneur and and start my own business and also take a lot of risks when it came to I guess non-traditional investments, right?

And things that most of my corporate colleagues were telling me not to do. That eventually led me to find the BTOC world in terms of sales and high ticket and BOC, which is much different than software. But as I bounced back and forth, I realized that there were so many things in the B TOC world that we're not doing in B2B that I think could be extremely valuable as as long as we implement them correctly. >> I want to double tap on something before we come back into this. Um, you were you know, you're a um contrarian to some some degree like you're saying, you know, you you did different things than your team members were doing.

When it came to like your tech sales, you're making decent money. Talk to me about that. Yeah. So, I'm 30 years old now. And just to give you guys context because inflation is all killing us as we know. >> Don't get started on that. >> When I was 22, uh, eight years ago, I was making 120K, which was pretty good for that time. Um, and that was because I was selling to I was selling an SMB product to the SMB market. And I think that's something we don't talk about enough where a lot of sellers find themselves selling to a market where that product doesn't serve.

Right? For example, um not to like bash any of the companies that I've ever worked for, but like there was a point in time where I was selling a enterprise product to the mid-market and it just wasn't working. >> Yeah. >> Just not something that they needed. Um, so >> it's more a luxury at this point and it's like you're not going to get that you're not going to get the the money the the success that you want to see um in that and people get frustrated and you leave and companies get mad and fire salespeople.

>> That's exactly what I'm seeing happening to a lot of my old colleagues right now. Um just finding themselves selling a a nice to have to be honest and trying to force it into a mustave. Yeah. basically made 120k a year my first year in tech sales because I was selling the right product to the right market and had a great manager, a great team lead who I eventually surpassed and became team lead and and and led the sales team um over at veh. >> Now from there I was like okay I know I can sell when the product is good and the market makes sense.

Let me start trying different things in terms of entrepreneurship. let me try to start a service business or let me try to do Airbnb. And what's interesting is my parents were constantly talking me out of taking these risks because they wanted me to stay on the traditional path. And I think a lot of people can relate to that. Um, and I'm glad that the one thing that they didn't talk me out of is what I do now. And one other thing, um, all of the the the crypto investments that I've made over the years that everyone called me stupid until they paid off.

So yeah, we can we can dive into any any any place in that that you'd like. >> So I want to go into like the because you're you're doing some really fascinating things in the B2B B TOC world right now, but I in our previous conversation, one of the things that you had uh we had talked about was there are some gaps right now in the B2B sales process. Um what what would you say some of those gaps are in the B2B sales process? because I after we go through that I want to and just to give the end from the beginning I want to go and tap into the sales process you're doing for your B toC side.

So tell me before this I like what are some of the challenges you see and I'm sure much of us can relate and if you can relate to some of these things I want you to go ahead and find Cam or me on LinkedIn and just drop a message say DK we relate and um send a message to both of us but go ahead real quick Cam. So the first thing that comes to mind is my whole career in B2B, we were taught to we were taught about the product, but we weren't really taught how to sell. So we we would get on calls and we would ask a couple questions and we would do demos and we would ask for a next step.

And it it was basically just hit or miss. And what I've learned in B to C is that you have to ask the questions that actually get you to the next step in the sales process. That doesn't necessarily mean they're 100% in, but getting them closer and closer to 100% in. And a lot of people think, "Okay, well that's common knowledge. Okay, well then why aren't we doing it?" Right? One of the biggest questions that we never I've never been told by any leader in tech to ask is the doubt question. >> The doubt question means what's going to happen if we like keep doing what we're doing now?

Are we going to be okay? Are we going to be like more than okay? And then if they say, "Yeah, we're going to be okay." Then you say, "Then why are we here?" Right? And that typically uncovers why they're here because people don't just hop on demos for no reason. >> Right? But you have to get them to realize why they're there because a lot of the times they forget. The prospect forgets. So doubt is a huge emotional question. Why are we here? What happens if we keep doing what we're doing now? Does it get us closer to the goal or not?

>> So go back on that. But why why would a prospect forget? I mean, I I I think it's kind of hard for them to forget if they they're they're in a meeting with me. They they wanted to book something. >> They forget because they have a lot going on and >> they basically need to remind themselves. It may be in the back of their subconscious, but when people say things out loud, they tend to remember and then they're like, "Okay, well, I just kind of told Cam or whoever's on the other side of the phone that this is something that I actually need." Right?

You just need to get them to admit that again because then it's like when you get to the end of the call and you're like, "Hey, like you have to lead next steps." That's another thing that I I I like saw people at a very high level like having very unclear next steps in a call. And like I don't know why we're not taught to be more aggressive. I think we're really um pressed on being like ultra professional for no reason. And I think that turns a lot of people off because they're on a call and they're like, "Man, like I I don't really want to even be on this call.

this demo is so boring. Like, what am I doing? And um I think what what set me apart and got me the numbers that I did was like I just knew I'm like, "Hey, like we're either going to set a next step today or like we both know this isn't going anywhere. So like what do you want to do?" >> Yeah. >> Right. Like let's just talk like people. Like you're either here because you're evaluating this seriously or you're not. And that's fine, but like we need to find that out fast so we don't have things get to S5 in Salesforce and then we're wondering why things aren't moving forward.

My at my last company, my S3, which our S3 was like decision maker is involved. My S3 to close was 85%. Why? Because if a decision makers actually involved, >> that means they're serious. And if I'm doing a good job of showing them what we can do for them, but half the battle is is getting the decision maker on the call. Because if somebody BTL comes into the process, >> and for those that are listening that don't know what BTL is, you probably do, below the line buyer, >> it's just not even a serious opportunity to begin with.

So, you know, all of this all of this is great. Um, where we're we we one um as as a sales professional, I need to be comfortable enough to be able to get doubt bring doubt into the equation or into the process. this is something you're saying and and I I presume presume the reason why it works so well in B toc is that you don't have enough time to you don't have time to waste because you're it could be a one call close um in some instances or a very minimal like maybe a couple um as opposed to the B2B process where it could be longer I just don't have that that and I'm usually at that point at a B toC I'm probably dealing with the person that can make a decision rather than a committee that is just elongating and stretching things out.

Am I am I off on that? >> You're not off. >> Okay. So, and we we got that part. And then the next component now is I I need to be comfortable talking about doubt, but also being willing to, you know, make sure I'm with the right people. Um those are some of the things uh that's there. And and I I think also that you have sales leaders at times who are I think there's a lot of fear in the B2B side where if I I'll give you an example. Okay Cam one of my coach uh client um that I coach he had a customer and they were looking at other vendors like we all knew it.

I told him, "Bring it up in a conversation, bro." But his boss told him not to bring it up in the conversation because he's so worried that if you bring this up now, all of a sudden they're going to be pessimistic and going to run and go go to that other client uh prospect other company, the vendor. But 98% some stupid number like that uh of of companies say they're evaluate at least three at least three u people when they're looking at a solution. And it goes up to like some dumb numbers like 12.

Um, but the point is if you if you get somebody and you think you're the only one, they're looking at somebody else. Why are the leaders in the B2B side so territorial or so fearful of having this type of type of discussion? Talk to me on that real quick and then I want to transition to your sales process. >> Yeah, great question. So, they're territorial because they think that reputation means more than what it is. And what I mean by that is they're a manager. >> Yeah. >> And maybe they have and obviously they have somebody above them and they're worried about what the next person up the chain thinks because everybody is scared to lose their job at the end of the day.

>> Got it. >> That is why employees don't take risks, right? So >> when I was in sales um like our QBRs, >> I used to say things like, "Hey, like why aren't we acting like we're the best thing walking?" Like people don't act like that anymore. They're just like very like neutral and like Yeah. Like we don't want to say anything bad about the competition. It's like why not? >> They're saying bad things about you. >> Yeah. They're saying bad things about you. But but people are so worried about losing their jobs or doing the wrong thing and they're so scared because they know the last time they didn't have a job.

It took them 6 months to get another one. >> Got it. >> That's it. Instead of living in fear, you went into B toC. You started what did you start to do by the way? >> When I first transitioned into B toc. >> Yeah. Because well your business right now. >> Sure. So during my and and to give the audience context as well. >> Yeah. The story. >> My entire tech sales career I was always looking for ways to make more money. Um and I realized I didn't really have the time to like go all in on a business cuz that took too much energy, time, mental bandwidth, so on and so forth.

And as we know like selling tech or or selling B2B in general, it's a business on its own, right? So what I did is I started to learn how to trade. Okay? And I the first person that ever taught me how to trade was my first tech sales manager at VHIM because we were in the in the fintech space and we were in finance. So he taught me about crypto. He taught me about options trading on the US stock market. Um and I started to make some good passive income like a little extra, you know, 3 to 5K a month.

And I was like, "Okay, what do I need here to go all in on this full-time?" Because if I can make people an extra 3 to 5K a month, that's probably worth a good amount of money to them. So, I'm thinking strategically and even in even this realm. So, then I eventually got to like taking bigger risks with the same strategies and I'm like, "Okay, I'm taking the same trades with more money and now I'm making more money as a result. Now I'm making 7 to 10k a month. Okay, time to walk away from the job." That's when I walked away and I was like, "Okay, I'm going to start showing people this stuff simply because they're already asking me." And that's how I got my first clients.

They were all corporate colleagues of mine. >> Yeah. >> Um and then I realized, okay, I can build this into a really big business helping people make 7, 10, 12, 15k a month, depending on their budgets. And what that path allows people to do is they can decide if they want to keep their job or not. They can still do this part-time and they can decide if they want to keep their job. But best best part is if you get laid off, you're not scared anymore. >> Yeah. >> So now you can even take bigger risks within your own company to try to become a top performer by doing riskier things in your sales process to close more deals because the the the people that are saying the risky things on sales calls are the best performers.

The top performers are not culture fits. regardless of what people want to say. >> I was told I have a t-shirt that says not a culture fit that I used to wear because I wanted to stand out, >> right? So, um, for example, I used to use an analogy on sales calls all the time where I would say, "Hey, do you understand that the reason you're not progressing to the goal that you told me that you're trying to get to is because you want to stay on the free version of our product, which is essentially the Planet Fitness of our software." Meaning, you're not walking into Planet Fitness and seeing a bunch of jack dudes and a bunch of supermodel looking women.

You're just not. But if you go to Bay Club or Equinox, you are. Why? Because they're people that actually invest in their process. People got that. People bought from me off of that, right? So, >> it's very it's a good visual, but also it's it's direct. >> 100%. And that's that's what that's what we're missing in the corporate world. Direct selling. We don't need to dance. Yeah, you you did something with your um with your sales with your sales process which I I want to tap into for a little bit.

I had a friend on our show, Marcus Sheridan, and he's a big guy. He used videos a lot and he loved the idea of um preparation, getting the prospect prepared before the call and being transparent as well. Um you told me about your sales process that you're doing right now. Do you mind walking me through that with the VSSL and and so forth? >> Yeah. Oh, on the B TOC side for sure. So, >> yeah. B T B T B T B T B T B T B T B T B T B TOC. Sorry. Yeah. >> We don't do this in B2B, which I don't understand why.

I think it's because it's like I don't want to say it's too innovative, but it's like such a far stretch right now for people to grasp, but I've built a $100,000 a month business off of this funnel. You run a video ad >> where you call out the audience you want to attract and you tell them what you have to offer and you show them your results. Combination of those things. It's my face on it. They DM you. Okay. I'm not saying you have to use my face. I'm saying that's what I do. >> Dang it. All right.

Dang. We're going to do >> if you want me through UTC. Yeah, we can talk UGC if you want that. That's fine. >> Like, bro, I'm gonna get some money off of this, bro. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Come hire me for for your for your tech consulting. Exactly. Um, no, but they see the ad on Instagram. Why Instagram? First of all, as opposed to Tik Tok or YouTube. Couple reasons. Personal brands are being built on Instagram today. And that is where the highest level buyer is, whether they're BTOC and accredited investor.

That's that's a consumer, but he's still an accredited investor. He or she, and looking to really invest a couple hundred grand into something, or they're a highle um B2B buyer in their company, right? Instagram is where it's at. Tik Tok is is kind of a BS audience and YouTube, if I'm being totally honest, it's it's good, but it requires a lot more budget to to to crack. It just does. The the the cost you're uh the return you're getting on the cost you're spending isn't there unless you have a really big budget.

With Meta, you can spend $50 a day as a software company. And I'll tell you as someone who like what I spend more than $50 a day now. I spend about 300 a day on ads. But when I was spending $50 a day, I was still making 80K a month, >> right? So that's absurd to think $50 a day times 30 days in a month is 1,500 a month. To get 80K back, that return on ad spend or rorowaz as we call it is absurdly high. Um >> the point is somebody DMs you on Instagram to learn more about what you have. Then we have what we call a setter process, which in tech we call it SDR, but it's that's more of a call process.

It's not really in the DMs, obviously. the setter process. Mine, and it depends on what you're doing, but mine is pretty straightforward. It's we're going to financially qualify you qualify you right away because no one with the budget is going to be turned off by that. Hey man, I run a team of ex Goldman Sachs traders. Typically, we work with people that have a minimum of five to 15K liquid that they can actually invest in the markets. Does that sound like you? No one's going to be pissed off by that if they actually have it.

That's like you coming to me and saying, "Hey, Cam, just want to make sure you're a seven figureure entrepreneur before you come on my show." >> Sure. Why would I get pissed off? >> Yeah. >> Fair question. >> Why do I have to reveal that? What if like All right, you're not offended. >> Why do I have to tell you my credit score? Well, you're you're worried about it because it's not good, >> right? Nobody's offended by anything that isn't true, >> right? >> That's like a quote for the day there. Click the tweet or something, but click the thumbnail.

Like nobody's offended unless it's true. >> Yeah. >> Right. So anyways, they say yes. I say, "Cool. Here's a quick overview of what we do." And I talk about our background. Long story short, I partnered with a couple uh ex Goldman Sachs traders to learn how to trade. And now we help people learn how to follow our trades so they can do it part-time while still at work and not worry about like studying charts all day like we do. >> Love it. >> Cool. Here are here are our returns. Would you like to book a call?

Yes. >> Is this this is like your when you say the setter, is that somebody actually they're talking to at this point or is this like a email or something that they get? >> This is in my Instagram DMs and >> my employee. >> Yeah. When I first started my business, it was me running it, but my employee is now managing that conversation. >> Dope. >> Yeah. >> From there, now here here's the part that B2B is missing though after this. This is very important. >> Yeah. the VSSL and the pre-all resources and the pre-all framing.

Before anybody gets on a call with me, they already know if they want to work with me or not >> because they've done their due diligence because I forced them to do their their due diligence. >> In software, we don't do that. We get on a demo and we have a 45minute conversation in nowhere because we're taught that. We're not taught that. >> If I was back in B2B in tech, what I would be doing >> is having a VSSL of my own with my face because they're going to talk to me. So, the more they see me, the more they're going to want to buy from me, even if it's >> Go ahead.

>> Here's a problem that you'll come across. Um, and I'm totally fine with it. But it goes back to what you're sharing is that you're not a culture fit because then your boss, and you know, marketing is going to be all over this like, "No, no, no, no, no. We have to have this color. You have to have this landing page. You have to use this font. Cam, what are you doing? It has to be approved." But it's like, I mean, you're not doing anything to to, you know, harm the business. If anything, you're doing something to enhance.

And I think that goes back to the idea of the risk again because I'm like screw it. If I lose my job, I'm making already a 10 grand and I'll take this concept to another company. Um, but I I see where this all stacks up now where the fear diminishes because you're confident and you're not worried and you can perform, you're willing to try stuff. >> Always was. Always was. Then they book a call and they fill out some information in the calendar form which once again another thing when people book a call in software they're not really filling out any qualifying information on themselves or on their business they should be doing >> phone number email.

>> How do we not know what budget a prospect has before they get on the call? I think that's insane. Don't you think that's insane? Why would we know? Why do we get on the call and have to have that awkward conversation like, "Hey, like, >> so what are you typically used to spending on software?" Like, are you kidding me? We should know that before they get on the phone. Ah, we're just looking into free tools. Why am I on this call then? No one gets on a call with me and says, "Hey, I'm looking for something free." So, why why would they do that in a sophisticated quote unquote sophisticated B2B sale?

Doesn't make any sense. What I think this part works well too because the person already qualified themsself in the chat with the team. So it it's just a natural next step like yeah here's my here's my here's my budget. I'm willing to I'm interested I really want to learn. Um, and as opposed to where it's B2B, it's what we find sometimes, and I think also, you know, not only B2B, but some, but mostly where it's just get as many leads as possible and just get them before the salespeople and they can be successful with they'll get some of them to come through, but your opportunity cost is great because I'm wasting, you know, whatever you're spending in an SDR 70 80 a year um they're hourly to have conversations with people that will never ever u buy, but they're the tire kickers.

>> It's just to make people feel busy, to make them feel like they're doing something. And I think what we have to realize is there is not eight hours of functional work you can be doing every day. I don't believe that. >> Yeah. >> And I think we're doing stuff to make ourselves feel like we're moving forward, but in reality, we're just burning out slowly. Let me give you an example with cold calling, right? Cold calling works once again if you're calling the right person for the right thing. So Kim, what do you mean?

HR doesn't answer the phone. They're not phone people. Real estate agents answer the phone. If you're selling real estate software, of course the real real estate agents are going to answer. Why? Because they think you're calling about their listing. But you want us to make 80 cold calls a day to HR who's going to maybe one person might answer. No. Why don't we take that budget and run ads? Like I don't know how we're not doing this. It's driving me crazy as we're talking about it. >> It's it's fascinating on that um front.

Um, and I think there's uh the there's some levels of backwardness um that people uh people are are I think just accustomed to like this is the way we've done it. This is the way we've all done it. We're going to keep doing it like this. And I think that's the the silly part of it. I would like to go to because I mean for time purposes we can go on for all day here but um you've given us so much to think about. I would like to talk to us and for just a second about some of the results you're seeing adopting this in your business.

You kind of alluded to some of that, but just give me some some some uh context. >> Yeah. So, like I said, when I started spending money on meta ads, I was spending $50 a day. I made 80 grand my first month. Why? good ads, good setter process, great closer process, which we can dive into in a bit. But you got to understand once again, the closer process, you can be a worse closer if your marketing is good and your results are good and you can show that because people get on a call already ready to buy.

Like my discovery for software was so long because people weren't preframed. My discovery for for people now that want to trade is, "Hey man, did you watch the resources that were sent to you?" Yes. Cool. Do you like know that you want to work with me or are you not sure? I swear to God that's it. >> Serious. That's your closing. >> Like that's it. Like because if you've watched me scroll through six months of trading results live in my account, you can't argue that I don't know what I'm doing. >> But we don't do that in software.

We don't show, hey, this company uh hired this many people with our software if you're using a recruiting selling a recruiting software, right? or this is what Octa did for security on this company, whatever, right? We don't we're not doing that. People come to calls not even sure why they're there and like don't even know what to expect and then we set an agenda because we're taught to set an agenda. The agenda doesn't matter if they're not pre-framed. >> Yeah. >> Before the call. >> So results in my business, man, I spent 1,500 a month, so $50 a day for my f in my first month.

And I made 80 grand back because people were preframe preframed before the call. my service was actually priced high. So meaning if you're going to spend $1,500 a month on ads, your pri your service can't be $600. My >> going to do like a $10 product, man. >> And that that's another way, right? >> But but but the low ticket to high ticket can work, but like only when there's so many leads that you can't handle them. For me, it's like I don't even talk to that many people a day. I just talk to the right people.

>> Yes. >> Right. So and then again my service is five grand, 10 grand, 20 grand. We have three tiers. So the people that are willing to actually invest 5, 10, 20 after looking at the results and understanding that the ROI is going to be 2x, 3x, 4x that, those are serious people that they don't they don't need to have like the longest conversation of all time. They've done their due diligence. I give them what they need to do their due diligence. They can look me up on LinkedIn. They can look at my YouTube.

They can listen to my podcast. They can see the type of people that I'm around. um they can see who my lead trader is. Mahul Patel ex Goldman Sachs rocket scientist who literally built a futures algorithm for Goldman netting seven figures a week. So like if that's not prestigious enough for you then like who you going to you know what I mean? You want to find >> Yeah. Go invest in the S&P and and your 401k till you die. That's totally fine with me. >> Yeah, that's amazing. Um I would love to I mean as we get ready to wrap up here um this stuff is very fascinating.

your adopt your took your B2B mindset adopted to B TOC with a unique B TOC process that we potentially could adopt at B2B side. Um, if there's one major takeaway you want a sales leader or sales rep listening to this call to get, what's that one major piece of advice? >> Let people truly be themselves and not be scared of getting fired to say certain things. Everywhere I've worked, our top performers were not culture fits. >> Yeah. >> We just didn't admit that to ourselves, right? Everywhere I've gone, they're they're they're loose.

What's the word? They're they're they have a loose screw. >> Yeah. >> And people are attracted to that. Especially in B2B where it's just watered down call, you know, collared shirts, same conversation over and over again. Everybody's bored, bro. >> Yeah. >> People be themselves. If people are listening to this and they're like, "Dang it, man. I'm curious. This man's making change. I'm a sales rep and I'm doing pretty decent with my uh my my income, my commissions. I want to not put it in a high yielding save account saving account.

What What's the best way for them to connect with you?" >> So, Instagram is profit with Cam. So, Profit with Kam. Um, you can DM me. I'll literally send you a video showing year to date every single trade we've done, wins and losses. We have a 80 plus% success rate. Um, and what we're doing high level is trading options, which just means we're predicting what's going to happen to a stock by a certain date instead of just buying a bunch of shares and like hoping we're going to get a 2x in 10 years, right?

There's levels to sophistication when it comes to investing. And if you're not tapped in with Wall Street people, then you're going to lose because you're going to be forced to put your money in your company's 401k or and keep in mind the 401k is the greatest scam of all time for the consumer. Why? Because it's they're doing what the bank is doing with your money. Why do you think the bank only gives you three or 4%. Because they're taking bigger risks and making way more. And they know you're too stupid to go out and figure it out.

And you're gonna do what your parents taught you to go be safe right? >> Yeah. >> But what if you learn to not be safe? That's how you get rich. >> Powerful. Powerful. Cam preaching y'all. Cam, um, your VSSL, if they go through this process, well, they they'll see that VSSL, right? >> And for those who have a VSSL, it's a video sales letter. >> Yep. If you're a B2B leader and you want to see what a really good VSSL looks like, just go through my funnel. You can waste my time. Even if you don't want to work with me, that's totally fine.

Like, I don't care. Like just watch it and you'll see what it is. If you want me to come script one out for you for your software company, I will just to show you it'll work. >> Yeah. Dope. Cam, thanks for taking the time to come on our show today, guys. His stuff is down in the show notes. Appreciate it, man. >> Donald, you're the man. Thanks for having me. >> I told you Cam came, he saw, he delivered. And uh if you want to go ahead and connect with Cam, tell him you found him here on the Sales Evangelist podcast.

What I love about it, the concept of helping the prospect to like most of the prospects that we are talking to, they know the rhythm, they know the process, they know what you're going to try to do. Imagine if you just set up your system to give them the information already. Just give be transparent, qualify them before they even get to the point where they jump into your uh into a meeting with you. Um I think it's just a it's a waste. um you can do it a lot easier if you get the prospect to um take the time to engage with you and to qualify themselves.

If you want to connect with Cam, learn about what he's doing or even go and partner with him. You can find details and you can go and evaluate it yourself and learn more about him. You heard him on the podcast. But as always, I want to help you to thrive. I want you to succeed. I want you to build opportunities. I want you to close more deals. And this is why I bring you folks that can give you insights that you're not going to typically get all the time. As always, I want you to go out, raise your level of thinking, and do big things.

See you on the next one.
