# The Biggest Reason Why Your Sales Pipeline Is Not Converting As It Should | Gearoid Cox

**Expert:** Donald Kelly

**Rank:** 9

**Metadata Score:** 81

**Published:** 2026-05-16

**Duration:** 00:24:47

**Views:** 33

**Likes:** 0

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bB2cyy40XV4

---

# Transcript

Skipping the fundamentals often-times is going to mess you up. You're going to lose deals, you're going to miss opportunities, and it's just not a good practice to do. What I find sometimes these days is that sellers are overcompensating with AI thinking that they can [music] skip the fundamentals and AI will help them. Well, you can't really do that. You're just going to have more horrible done way faster. But what if there's a way that we can tackle some of the fundamental pieces that are impacting our deals and holding us back from closing more?

Today we're going to tackle one of those areas and I promise you if you apply the things today, money in the bank. Check it out. Hey, hey, hey everyone. Welcome to another great episode of the Sales Evangelist podcast. I'm your host Donald C. Kelly, the Sales Evangelist, and I'm so excited for another great episode. I'm so excited to be here with you today. And on this episode I have an amazing guest. His name is Geroid Cox. He is the founder and CEO of a company called Sales Pipeline where he helps organizations to be able to better qualify and to establish stronger pipelines which naturally leads to higher percentage of deals win and more money in the bank.

We're going to tackle how sales people sometimes are missing the fundamentals and organizations skip over that qualification, that crucial qualification. He also has a theory when it comes to pipeline which I'm going to let him explain. But if this is your first time listening to our podcast, I encourage you to go ahead and subscribe and we'll notify you every time we drop a new piece of content. If you've been listening for a minute, please subscribe and also tell someone else about it so they can get a benefit from so they can get all the benefit from from this show.

Now as we dive in you will get a chance to understand a little more about where he comes from when with his philosophy, why it's so important, and how you can apply this to help your team and yourself to increase your pipeline and to close more business. Check it out. Welcome to the show Geroid. How you doing man? I'm good. How are you, Donald? Pleasure to be here. Fantastic. I'm looking forward to this conversation. Um you know, I bragged about you a little bit in the teaser there and your your focus on sales and how you guys are what some of the fun things you guys are doing.

So, I'm really excited to dive into the conversation and go straight in heavy on this this problem. Like the state of AI sales of sales AI right now. One of the problems that we're seeing is that many sellers are not doing basics and because of that it's they are trying to do the old school numbers game. Not that it's still not a numbers game to some degree. I mean the more qualified people you talk to the better off you're going to be. But, it's not let's spray and pray like if it's like early 2000s or even 2010s, 2015.

We can't do that anymore. The game has been adjusted. One of the things that you mentioned that we need to do better and sellers are doing horrible right now are qualifications. So, you just feel that they're being done wrong and you know, sellers are not necessarily selling the next step. But, here's where I come in with this. Where does this lie? Well, first off, tell us why you feel that way right now. I'll follow up with the other question. I think for us where it really started to become super evident was that we work across multiple clients and the first stage that we always do when we're going into fix a broken sales system is look at the CRM.

And it's always the same story. They're nearly always identical. We have this full CRM of deals, but things aren't closing the way we want to. And then when I look at it, there's so many deals that have been in a stage way too long. There's a specific stage where 90% of the deals are and it just not a reflection of reality, right? So, so that's where the problem started for me when each person thought it was unique to them, but because I was seeing more and more of it the more people I went across.

I was like, okay, why are all these deals in here? And then you start to ask sellers questions and it becomes a house of cards really quickly and you realize this is completely wrong. And then I started asking questions, okay, why is it here? And and initially my own reaction was, okay, maybe the salesperson not not lying per se, but you know, they're they're focused on these things. They're trying to progress things along. They haven't done their admin correctly. But but it's multifaceted, right?

Because they haven't been taught how to do it correctly. They haven't been taught the state of mind each the buyer should be in at each stage. There often isn't actually real criteria for each stage. And like I'll give you the most basic example of all time, you know, a a stage I see in nearly all CRMs, meeting booked or demo booked. Like, did they show up? Are they still in that state? You know, how many people book a meeting, don't show up for six reschedules, still in the meeting book phase, heavily influencing a pipeline, never going to come to this call.

You know, and and really when you look into why they got that meeting booked, it was incorrect and everything between that. So, for me I thought, okay, this is one of the biggest problems with how we can even diagnose problems because we can't even look at real data to begin with. So, that's where I started to boil back and say, okay, in my CRM and in every CRM of every client we need to have there has to be real criteria that you must match to move a deal. You know, and and then at least you're looking at the true play.

So, let's let's use an example. Maybe we can focus on one industry and then we can use that throughout the rest of the episode. Um what's a good industry we can focus on? Um AI is actually a good industry as much as I hate the AI selling. We sell a lot of AI products at the same time. Um and and a really good example of that is, okay, let's talk about early early outreach {slash} early lead gen. So, we have leads in most of our AI clients coming in from content that are created, from lead magnets, from the sales people doing actual outreach, from webinars, all those different things.

Each of those are slightly different. And and I think that's where we started when we said to look at this problem, right? Where >> Sure. each of them have reached out for a different reason and may need to be treated differently. And what I would often say is, if you have a CRM with millions of different inputs and some of them are marketing leads and some of them are sales leads and all of them are unqualified or qualified at different degrees. They're different funnels. They're different pipelines.

You know, and and I think for the start what I used to see especially with these newer companies is that everything is dumped in one place. Now it's almost impossible to teach a salesperson how to move each of these leads as one. You know what I mean? They need to be treated as separate. When and why should someone go on a meeting? You know, that's the next big question. You know, because I think so many salespeople back to what you said is it's spray and pray. It's book meetings, book meetings, book meetings, book meetings for these earlier stage companies, for earlier stage reps.

And and yes, that is the goal, right? But it's not to waste a closer's time, a seller's time, an account executive's time. It's to book qualified meetings with people who have a problem. So how are we identifying those problems? Because a lot of the time that's done on the meeting, right? And that's a separate piece if you're having a call and you're going to really deep dive into these problems, but what are the specific criteria? How did you reach out to them? What did they with? And then that dictates what you have in the next conversation.

I'm not going to go through the entire pipeline piece by piece here without kind of having an over and back with you, but for me it's all about focusing on, "Okay, I go to my client and I say, what's the buyer's journey look like? Yeah. >> What problems do they actually face? What case studies we have to suit each? What's making them engage with us versus what's getting their attention from an offer? And then we build a path for each. And at all times we're guiding that client through a journey of education.

Look, look, I'm just saying like from a salesperson standpoint though, if I'm uh if we have three different pipeline for three different ICPs, is is that what I'm trying to get at? Or if it's the same ICP but different path they might take? This is where it gets complicated, right? You have three [clears throat] different ICPs, but you might have three different paths and I think what I find sometimes when we speak to people is they say, "Oh, this ICP and this path works really well." It's It's no, they all need to mix and match to each other.

And there similarities, but I think that's kind of what I'm trying to get at is that everything can't be perfectly textbooked for a salesperson now. And that's why you need to start getting inside the head of the buyer's perspective. Like, where are they coming at this from? You know, sellers have this and we train it into them and we're part of that problem as well. You know, create awareness, bring to this stage, book a demo, show this, show that. But these people just have problems. They just have problems that they're looking at solutions for.

There's multiple types of solutions. There's lots of people who who are serving in different ways with different technologies, with different scales of company, at different price points. So, you need to get inside their journey to understand how you progress them along this pipeline. And I think where I've seen most of the problem that we're speaking about is if you rush them through the pipeline without hitting one of the key stages, these deals fall apart. You know, a very obvious example of something I've seen quite a lot is when the buyer feels to you as the seller that they're ready to move very quickly, and then you get to the final stage you think you're going to close that account and then they say, "Oh, yeah, your competitor showed me a case study that was a perfect fit for my business." Yeah, but you could have shown them that.

You know, and and I think that's why we really need to step back and take that perspective of what are all these pieces in our CRM? What are we supposed to be doing at each stage? What do we have at hand to do it? So, even if the person isn't asking for a case study, should we have shared one at some point? 100% we should have. Even if it's not something they ask for, we force them to read. And I think that's why we as sellers now are in this era era of AI AI to remote to relate it back to that is that that enables people to do huge amounts of volume of generic messaging now with very little changes, but it gives you very little inkling to what these steps are.

Like, I love to use AI in my sales process, but it's more of built in the follow-ups and automations and what you need to do every day, be a bit of a taskmaster, but I don't want to do that outreach because each time you get the opportunity to have a conversation and I train SDRs to do this now, don't just go straight to book the meeting even if you can. You need to ask questions. You need to have a conversation. You need to build some level of trust because to me I would rather six really good meetings than 600 meetings that no one ever buys.

And and I know that's not the reality, but we're all about quality over quantity at Sales Pipeline for that reason and I think when we take the time to really try to understand them, we do better in the next sale. But also we make sure we actually hit all the checkpoints and give ourselves a fair shot of closing. Especially when you look at longer sales cycles. This is a huge problem if you spent 6 months for 6 months, 8 months, 9 months working with someone to find out the mistake you made was at the very beginning and you can't go back to it now.

>> [laughter] >> So you know, this is very fascinating. What's the idea of the typical client that you have? How many pipelines do they have for their their their team? I think we're trying to kind of drill it down as close as we can to end up in two, which is marketing qualified lead and sales qualified lead, and drive it into two pipelines then going forward. But you know, on average six maybe. Um, more established companies because they have those content, they have those lead magnets, they have sales teams actually doing outbound and they have some percentage of inbound referral, those kind of businesses.

So let's let's go with that. So let's for example, like say say company like ours, we with our podcast, people find us from our podcast and then they'll come into our funnel um at times. So what does that path would look like then in an example if a team is using content? So somebody somebody listens to the show, they go to the site, say DK I'm interested in your services. That person that granted may be way more qualified because they probably listened to me for God knows how long, maybe 6 months and see feel like I know my stuff and then come into the funnel.

Just walk me through with that example compared to one of my team members doing a cold outreach in that pipeline. Yeah, so so in a cold outreach it starts way way before, right? So Yeah. >> you're talking about really nailing who is your ICP, is this an ICP match, can we actually help this person even an idea, right? So So that starts far before. Then it's what is the message, what is the offer for this specific persona in the specific ICP, what are the kind of problems they're facing, and that's the conversation we need to have.

When someone is coming more inbound, it does get a little bit easier in general, right? Because Sure. you've already built some level of trust, they already have some level of idea how you're operating. So we've seen depending on the volume, it can be a simple checklist for the call. You know, and we do a lot of qualifying out while people are trying to book calls, you know, and revert them to a different funnel if they answer something in the checklist that means they're slightly less qualified, divert them into a different funnel or marketing channel or whatever it is.

Um or you can do that on the call, and that's one of the few times when I feel like with inbound, the close rate's higher, people generally have a much better idea. You can take those straight to call, but it depends on your setup, right? So if that's direct to you all the time, Donald, that mightn't be realistic. If you have sales teams in the middle, that might be a worthwhile meeting taken. But I think the real thing to do, if if it was me coming into your business not knowing everything about how you operate behind the scenes, is you reflect on it.

You measure it. You measure it, you look at the past, and you say, "Hey, from inbound leads, when we book calls like this using our form, 70% of them are qualified leads, this is worth doing." Or hey, Gerald, we did this and 40% of them were qualified leads and I wasted 60% of my time, then we would go back and change. Like my job, I've been a salesperson most of my life, I'm not here to create difficulty and and make it any more difficult than an admin side from a sales point of view, but I am trying to say, "Okay, what can we put in place to make sure that for everything we do, we reap the the value, right?

So we're not taking calls where we're wasting our time or mixing our own message or potentially trying to sell to the wrong people. How would we maximize the value to each person? And a lot of people who aren't qualified are better off going in an educational funnel than they are having someone made attempt to sell them and then kind of direct them somewhere else on a call, you know? I I get this and from a leadership standpoint, I'm I have like, say, Jeffrey listening to this episode. He is a account executive.

He may not have the capability of moving the needle. What can we If if a sales rep is listening and she or he wants to take this back home to mom or dad, um this idea, uh what should they say? And then the other side, flip side to that, you have a leader listening to this podcast and you need them to We need to help have them improve this qualification process. What would you want to say to them? So, let's talk talk to the sales rep. Um she or he is listening. They're trying to figure out, "Man, this does sound good.

What should I go I can tell my boss?" Yeah, so from the sales rep's point of view, for for yourself before you even go to your boss, you're going to utilize more of your time to actually be selling, right? If you want to be a seller, you need to be selling, not working. They're not the same thing. Dead leads are a waste of your time. And I think you need to go and do some math for yourself and kind of say, "One, am I doing this correctly?" Which you're probably not because even I'm the guy who's preaching this, we all have these problems.

We all still fall back into old habits. We don't have all these everywhere. So, you need to say, "Hey, how much of my time is dead? How much of my time am I spending on dead deals or doing the wrong thing?" You need to diagnose your own problem and you need to go to your boss with a business case. You need to get into his buyer's journey. What's going to make him or her listen to you in this scenario? So, you need to have a look at your own specific circumstances and say, "Where am I wasting my time?

When am I having bad calls? Where are they coming from? And what suggestions could I make to slightly change that?" From the sales leader's point of view, it should be like my selling point of view is do you want to have the truth in your pipeline, right? Do you want to be able to forecast to your board of directors or whoever it is that you report to on your side what's actually realistic and what's actually happening, and do you want to utilize as many of your reps time as possible, and the way that you sell it to them is from the same point.

We're going to get you doing more selling and less unnecessary admin or wasted time or pushing time. We're going to get you more assets, you know? How many companies do you and I know or anyone who works in this industry know who have all of these assets that are not being shared with customers? Okay, so these customers have to find themselves or or white calculators or whatever it is. There's a million and one different things, blueprints, readiness pieces, and and they're not using them. Those need to be used at the right stage, given to the right people to push them further along the line, put them in the right funnel of follow-up.

And I think all of this to say is with all the tools and everything that's out there now, you should have more time to research and understand your actual buyer and be able to hit more of them with your outreach, hit more of them with your messaging on your call by diverting the right things in your CRM into the right place. I would say that the vast majority of the CRMs I open, 30 to 50% of the things that are in there are not deals that are going to close and are not something you should be concentrating on right now, and you want to be concentrating on that stuff you can close near term, medium term, and short term and doing near term, medium term, and long term actions at near term, medium term, long term.

Yeah, love it. This is awesome. Um I I I wanted to look at the this other thought. Um one of the things that we had discussed um previously was not only the sales rep side, you know, what the sellers can do. There's we feel that there's more that the organizations can do overall. You guys had an example um where you need to sell from the buyer perspective. It was I think it was a story around I'm trying to get my somebody selling folk down on the wrong thing. Do you remember that story we're talking about it last week?

>> Yeah, yeah, I I do for sure. So like um so we were hired to work with a a consulting base sale, right? Um they had a really defined script and I think when revenue had been affected, they kept going back to the script because they were closing a lot of sales um on the first call to B2C product. It was something that was a sale to the consulting we'll say that initial front-end sale. Yeah. >> They kept revisiting the same 10% that was broken and breaking it more and more and more because they were looking at the wrong thing.

So I'm going to caveat by saying to get to the point in the story, we did some AB testing, right? We didn't write this perfect script on the first day, but we got there and it still wasn't converting the way we wanted it to and for me one of the lessons I learned early on in sales and I'm still repeating today is when you're selling to somebody, there's kind of three trust buckets. Do they trust the person they're speaking to? Do they trust the brand that they're selling from? And do they actually think this is going to be a solution to their problem?

And because we were doing a lot of this kind of psychology of the buyer's journey, we started identifying different things we could change. We changed one very simple thing. We realized they were just afraid of what if this didn't work. They were at that final point to closing. They were interested in the product. They had relative trust in both pieces. They thought it would solve their problem, but they were having that afterthought, what if this doesn't work? You know, and what we did is we added into the end of the script because it was the truth the whole time.

We just weren't telling people, "Hey, regardless what happens, I'm your single point of contact. Anything isn't going well, anything isn't going your way, anything you need changed, anything at all, you just reach back out to me and I'm going to handle it." And instantly the buyer rate went up and it went up a lot and it stayed up. And to me it was eye-opening because we were AB testing. There could have been any one of these things that changed it. And for me it was like, "Oh, it it's that simple.

It's a small psychology It's buyers remorse. It It's a million and one things that we've heard before in sales lessons and they just needed a path for their thoughts. They just needed to know, okay, if everything goes well, he's told me all about that. And if everything goes wrong, or anything goes wrong, this is what I do, and this is where I go. That's enough for me. Because people don't need to hear your product is perfect, or your service is perfect, or nothing has ever gone wrong. What they need to know is what do I do if and when?

You know, if everything is going well, what's happening? Great, we've heard all about that. Okay, and if everything everything goes wrong, what do I do? This is what you do. And it made it super clear and simple, and it was really made me keep drilling into, okay, what are these people thinking as we're talking? What are they thinking when we send them an outreach message? What are they thinking when we bring them on a demo? Um and and it's all these small little pieces that made it a lot more human, and a lot more like people felt, I think they're actually being understood.

That, you know, they've been sold to before, they've bought products before, a lot of work, a lot of haven't, and a lot has probably been oversold, and I think when you put yourself in that position with the buyer, you're really getting towards that trusted advisor, rather than just someone trying to close a sale, you know? See, and that's a piece that I was going to go back on. I remember we elaborated on that, where the sellers need to be that trusted advisor, they need to be seen as a consultant, rather than even if it's just a generic trust, like like you can trust me, but then when you feel when you have when you feel a genuine trust and understand knowledge that I know your system, I know your process, I understand your difficulty, there's a higher level of kinship that come from that.

Right? Um and and it's it's it takes some work. One or two tips that you would have give to help a sales rep to get to that level of genuine consulting um basis. I think you have to just flick a small switch, where you're searching for the truth, rather than what you want to hear. You have to be genuinely interested in this person's problem. And and that's much broader than just their problem. Their industry, their their role in the company, how that works. How they found out like when did this become a problem?

How did you notice it was a problem? And then who is kind of the decision makers around that or the people who are championing it as a problem or not a problem. When you start to do those things, you naturally do the things we teach you as a seller. You don't have to be told the specific questions. If you take a genuine interest in their position and kind of go down the layers of questioning. I think where I see people fall sales people fall down with this is that they hear an answer they like and then they move on.

Like you should almost be getting to the point in qualification for me where the answer becomes I don't know. You should have asked them so many questions that they're like no I don't know that. Like we're we're too deep in the problem. Then you know you've kind of got the full picture. I like that. I think that's my new practice now after try to out for today. Get to the point where they say I don't know. This is good. If there's one major takeaway you want folks leaving this episode to walk away with, what's that one major piece of advice?

A clear and actually truthful pipeline is your best friend. Like you want to be able to open up your CRM every morning and have a realistic view on where you're going to end this week, month, and quarter. And you need to be ruthless with what's in there. Because otherwise what are you working on and how are you directing yourself? It feels to me like you're a little bit of a sales person without a plan. You know, and the cleaner that is, the more obvious your next steps and actions are or the most obvious where the gaps in your pipeline are.

Maybe it's obvious there isn't enough progressing or there isn't enough on the input side or whatever it is. But go home, open it up, and be ruthless. Be very honest with yourself. If you haven't spoken to somebody in 3 weeks, it's probably not going to close. If they have rescheduled the meeting five times, it's probably not going to close or you've done something incorrectly you need to revisit. And I think we're in a land of selling where we're all so focused on the next client or the next meeting or the next deal.

You learn a hell of a lot from what you've already done. So I think open it up, go through it, and be ruthless with yourself, and be honest. Give yourself real honest feedback. And if you can, ask for it from someone else. A manager, a team member, all of the above. The better you get now being If you're a 10% better salesperson next week, you're going to be 110% every week after. You know, so now is the time to get better. Now is the time to get the truth in your CRM, and the honest reality of what you're looking at, and then work from there.

You know, love it, man. If folks want to get in touch with you, what's the best way for them to do so? You can reach out via our website, the sales-pipeline.io, or Gerald Cox on LinkedIn. Um we're always happy to have a chat. We're always happy to help diagnose some of these issues. It's a learning opportunity for both, right? Gerald, thank you so much for coming on the show today. Pleasure. Thank you, Donald. I'm telling you, it was absolutely amazing. You can go ahead and connect with my friend, Mr.

Cox, over on LinkedIn. You can find the link and information down in the show notes. Check out their organization as well, Sales Pipeline. They're big, big, big believers in helping sellers to build pipeline, just like we are. And if you desire to get some help with that, you can check out our our services with our mastermind. Our sales mastermind allows the sales sellers to come together to get a chance to be able to improve. They get weekly accountability to be able to tackle their goals, and to be able to hit their numbers.

If you'd like to see it in action, you can find more details by going to the salesevangelist.com/mastermind. Again the salesevangelist.com/mastermind. As always, I want you to thrive, and I want you to succeed. I want you to raise your level of thinking, but most importantly, I want you to go out and do big things. See you on the next one. >> [music]
