# Copy this exact blueprint to grow your SaaS to $3M+ ARR without any SDR

**Expert:** Taylor Haren

**Rank:** 8

**Metadata Score:** 99

**Published:** 2025-09-11

**Duration:** 00:10:25

**Views:** 627

**Likes:** 21

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7djhpzXLALg

---

# Transcript

SAS companies used to hire 30 STRs to hit quota. Now they're replacing them with one person and of course AI. That one person makes at least 120K minimum. And if you're in tech sales or you're trying to break into it, what I'm about to show you could literally decide your future and the income that you could ever make. Because right now fast growing SAS startups under 5 million are quietly spending as much as 25 grand a month on brand new out systems. I would know. We have clients paying us that much just to get the insights on what these systems look like.

There's not big SDR teams. There's not multisequence spammy sequencing and barely anyone's talking about it yet. So, hi, welcome to the YouTube channel. I'm Taylor Herren, founder of Sales Automation Systems. We help fast growing B2B SAS, AI startups, and B2B companies scale outbound with AI and automation via cold email. And today I want to walk through an exact blueprint behind our one person like sales engine and how you can build or even uh become it yourself. In this video you'll learn, you know, why the old outbound metal is just simply falling apart when my friends like Adam Robinson like to say that cold email is dead even though we generated 42% of their revenue just with cold email last year.

a second, what this new model and what the 120K role looks like, the exact tools that they use to scale, why the shift is happening, and of course, the skills that you need to get hired into and ideally do it fast to take advantage of this shift in our technology. So, by the end, you'll know how to either build systems yourself or step into this 120k role. And no, this doesn't require you to be like a full stack dev or learn how to code or be some type of like AI engineer. I did it with being a college dropout and I just learned how to do this stuff 3 years ago when I was working as an account executive.

In fact, I think this works way better if you're not technical but but you're scrappy. So, if you want to future proof your sales career or your sales team, this might be the most important 10 minutes you spend this week. But, let me show you the playbook and what most teams are ditching. So, the old model is dead. The old playbook looked something like this. You hire a team of underpaid STRs. They each are blasting 15-part email sequences to try to get people to buy right now, right now. and you send everything from your primary domain and hope that people reply and then you hit them like crazy.

What it really meant was flooding every single B2B inbox with generic templates, targeting an entire market instead of targeting your best buyers and even then targeting with that entire audience with those generic templates, burning your primary domain reputation, which is even more impactful if you're a small business or part of a small team. And and sometimes they burn them so bad that you can't even send contracts to people. They just hit spam. I've been there as a sales person. I get spam. It's like, "Oh yeah, like cuz we just do we're just too spammy with our sales team." And you know, racking up overhead with reps focused on volume, not outcomes.

And so, you know, that used to work 5 years ago, the predictable revenue model. It used to work 5 years ago today. But today, your prospects, they see right through it. And worse, your emails don't even get delivered. Team burns out before anyone even sees your offer. And even then, like, you don't know if you're delivering half the time. So, you can't even really infer how good is our offer in the first place cuz no one's even reading it or some people are reading it, but not people that you think are.

And so, you can't even interpret your data. It's expensive. It's noisy. And it just doesn't scale anymore. And how did this become the norm? The logic was simple and it was good-hearted. Everything within the predictive revenue model. They used to say stuff like it takes 11 touches to close a deal. But no one realized how much damage it was doing at scale without the proper infrastructure in place. And so what does the new model look like? What does that modern uh motion look like? You'll see this term thrown around a lot.

Some people call them go to market engineers. Um about a year ago I was working with a bunch of companies and term hadn't even been coined yet. And I think it's a perfect name for what that role looks like. But here's here's why they're switching to go to market engineers and why it's 10 times more effective. They're not even necessarily replacing their STRP R teams, but they're repurposing them. I see it as two main arms of a business. You have one where you have like the Navy Seals of your business where they have like their targeted accounts, their dream 200 list that they are developing relationships with.

They're taking people out to dinner. They're manually writing emails that are actually researched and have human emotion as a part of it. They are tactfully targeting and doing those types of things. It's much more like an AE role than an SDR role. So what they're doing is these teams are repurposing their entire STR teams with one single elite operator who in tandem is going to work with those Navy Seals, but they are what I like to call going to tarpet bomb the battlefield where in my philosophy I believe let's send one email to your total address market every two months and not with 15-part email sequences.

Let's just send one good email with your best offer to everybody at least every 2 months and at least make them aware of your product. Sometimes it's not even about booking a meeting and going, "Hey Joe, I exist. So do you. Can I take your time?" It's more so about some of the messages we're sending to people are literally just like, "Hey, we have this valuable thing. Would you like the valuable thing completely for free?" And so that model seems to work great. And so now instead of having all of these SDR teams, it's replaced with one elite operator.

And this person typically owns everything having to do with cold email with inbox rotation via tools like smart lead or instantly or email bison. They're typically managing outbound DMs at scale with Hey Reach. I mean, they can literally just load up the whole sales team's account into those platforms and then multi-sequence all of them out. And so you could have one person sending all the messages for the entire sales team on their behalf. They build and they personalize lists with things like play.

They do copy at scale with AI. And then they even probably lay your stuff in like sales trigger automations where you know when someone comments on a certain post or when they visit certain website or their company acquires a certain tool they're reaching out at that time with a relevant message. And also I see a lot of people do this wrong where they go, "Hey Joe, saw that you just did this. Anyways, here's my thing." Like if you know that they did a trigger, just send them your best offer. Send them the best message at the same time that they do the thing.

you're way more likely to convert than being creepy and being like, "Hey Joe, saw you at the grocery store the other day. Anyways, do you want to buy my thing?" And you know, this works because the systems themselves do uh the heavy lifting. So, what is this role really? This role blends a sales ops, marketing, copywriting, tech. You know, some companies call it an outbound growth executive, some companies call it a full cycle SDR, some call it a revenue attribution lead. But really, you know, this has been coming uh into the marketplace more and more as a GTM or a go-to market engineer.

And these people, they usually report directly to the CRO or the founder because they can generate so much revenue. We do this in a fractional way for for multiple large rapidly growing companies. And we know some companies where they're just they're installing this person directly into their company. We've helped them hire and recruit and all of that kind of stuff. But when you think about like why is this happening and you need to understand this if you want to be able to like work in these types of roles one day is that these companies are tired of really high CAC, low respond rates and like burning their market.

Also the other thing is like you don't need all of these teams in order to do these things. And we and also in my opinion teams don't even like doing these, right? These teams they want to be able to do the more human things like making calls, developing relationships, taking people out to dinner, that kind of stuff. And so you know uh but really like these teams they want outbound that truly works. They get real meetings without killing their domain or spamming their entire market. And the new model also works because it's very high skill.

It's very low headcount which is in I mean we're a 2.2 almost a $3 million company right now with only uh two and we just hired our third employee, right? That's almost a million dollars in revenue per person, which is becoming more and more the the norm. This model is also built on modern plug-and-play tech stacks like Play, Spartle Lead, like Hey Reach, some of the fastest growing uh tools out there. And it's automated. Um it's scalable and it's extremely accountable. And so, and we aren't just talking theory here.

Like our cold email consultancy is building this inside of companies all the time. Crazy part is sometimes it's just so complicated. It's such a big project. They're like, "Yo, can you just handle this forever in an outsource manner? We don't need it in house." Especially with the tech changing. I could see that. But what's great is that if you're looking for a role like this, it's such a great area to be able to like hone your skills in such a time to be able to trying to get in the door and maybe figure out how you could do this for a company cuz you know companies are literally asking for these these exact setups.

So you might be thinking like what skills do you need to become this person. If you want to break into this role here are three quick things that I think would help you get you started. One, you probably have to learn cold email infrastructure, understand deliverability, warming inboxes, domain rotation, using tools like smart lead instantly, email bison, things like that. There's tons of content on LinkedIn on how to do it. If you need to send anything less than a 100,000 emails a month, you're great.

If you need to do something more than that, I do think right now that you have to have really high skill expertise like we do. I mean, we send as many as like 8.5 million emails a month just for a single client of ours. And so, it's quite a lot. It can be quite a lot, but once again, you don't need to do that if you are doing like lower volume. I'd be surprised if a company wants to send more than 100,000 just for themselves. The second skill that you would need to master is you need to master clay.

You want to really hone in personalization, understanding how people think. What actually matters with personalization? Like I don't think good personalization is, "Hey Joe, I uh I noticed a certain restaurant in your area is rated five stars. Is it actually that cool?" I think best the best AI personalization is stuff where you don't even realize that it's an AI crafting it where you go something like for our tool for our client fixer, we say things like, "Hey, our tool saves most people an hour a day." And so that would leave more time for sales meetings or hiring new sales reps or just picking up your cup of coffee earlier in the day.

And so it kind of infers that it has context around your job and that it's more applicable to you. and it's a little bit more subtle and I that's my personal favorite. And then last is like the third skill I think is that you have to get really adaptive with your tools. There's brand new tools that come out every single week and some people can get intimidated by this but I really don't think you need to think about how many apps you have on your phone and how many times you download an app, you try it out, it doesn't work and then you delete it.

It's the same thing. It's just like learning a new app, a new system. It really isn't that intimidating. And I swear if you just think of it that way, it just unlocks a whole new way that you can apply these skills. And so if you master these things, right, the best thing is you don't need a marketing degree. You don't need to be technical. Um, you just need to be curious, scrappy, and dangerous with with these AI tools. And like I said, I dropped out of college and we're doing great. And I think it's an advantage.

I think a lot of people, you go to school right now and you're just learning how to memorize facts. They don't even teach you how to use AI at scale. They don't teach you how to critically think and like process information. So, I think the more time you can spend in the world doing real stuff, the better equipped you'll be to actually live in the real world because uh this role isn't just high leverage, it's it's high exposure. You're not just booking meetings, you're actually helping to shape a company's go to market strategy.

And the best part is like typically you're only sitting like one seat away from the CEO. So you can see how these people are thinking, how they're applying tools and you know and if you do that well for three to 12 months, you're on the fast track to be able to doing the head of growth. You're understanding AI tools better than probably anybody at the company and it could just pay dividends over your lifetime. I think it's one of the best roles that somebody just a 20 22-year-old could be entering the marketplace and like go into to like acquire skills.

I think it's one of the best roles possibly out there. So if you're a founder, this is how you grow your outbound without burning out. or if you're looking for to land a highpaying, high leverage sales role yourself, right now is the golden window for that. And I guarantee if you follow what I've shared today and start building your own outbound engine, I can't see a world where you want to get hired. And so, if you want to learn how to install these systems for your own team, drop a comment with what part of your outbound is the most painful right now and I'll make a tear down video on it.

Or, you know, check out our other video where I break down how exactly we've grown RB2B and Fix Your AI at scale. All right, peace.
