# The ULTIMATE SDR/BDR Playbook: How to Become a Top Performer

**Expert:** Connor Murray

**Rank:** 2

**Metadata Score:** 245

**Published:** 2025-10-13

**Duration:** 00:29:22

**Views:** 6,845

**Likes:** 305

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=INlYBQtJdhw

---

# Transcript

All right, this is going to be a no BS guide to becoming a top performing SDR. We're going to cut out all the fluff. So whether you're a new SDR or a current SDR looking to revamp your processes, I'm going to give you exactly what you need to focus and execute on in order to become a top performer. So we're going to start with setting the foundation and the types of habits you want to be building. We're going to talk about our prospecting engine, which is a fancy way of saying how we organize ourselves through a process I call coiling the spring.

We're going to talk about getting the nitty-gritty into messaging, so cold email templates and cold call frameworks that work. We're going to talk about the eighth hour SDR blueprint to follow and how it's actually a lot simpler than a lot of other cadences and workflows that are commonly taught out there. Then converting meetings to pipeline, how to get people to show for those meetings, AE alignment, things like that. We're going to talk about AI because you need to start taking advantage of this stuff in your daily workflow.

and then how to optimize your process and kind of turn the SDR job into a game because when you do all of this right, that's what it starts to feel like. So, let's get into it. First, setting the foundation. We're not aiming for perfection out of the gate. You're not going to be an A+ cold caller, an A+ prospector right out of the gate. We want to focus on building habits, not perfection. So, we want to build habits that are easy to stay consistent with. You also want to be building trust with your account executive and manager.

I don't want to labor on this too much because that's different for different people, but this is a big part of your success and you want to be really nailing these relationships and building trust early on. Choose two to three, this is big, choose two to three models and mentors to follow, not 20 voices. There's so much BS out there on LinkedIn. People have different here's how to write cold emails. Here's how to actually cold call. Permission based, not permission based. There's no right answer.

I try and be a role model. If you're if my stuff resonates, go deep into mine. But what I tell people is choose two to three max. I mean that. Not 20. I fell in this trap where I'm following 20 different LinkedIn sales influencers and on YouTube. And you end up with trying everything. You're trying nothing. Try two to three that resonate where you're like, I like this person. I could see myself saying or doing things like they're preaching. And then go deep into it for a month. If after a month there's zero progress, then course correct.

But chances are if you choose right, you're going to find a lot of what works and learn to iterate off of that. And then the goal is stability, not instant mastery. Steady productivity beats hot and cold swings, especially in these first 30 days. So after we've set the foundation, and honestly, you can do this while you're setting the foundation. We want to start building our prospecting engine. So you really want to get comfortable with identifying your ICP and triggers. You're probably going to get a lot as taught to you in sales enablement if your company does this.

But part of this is you start to figure out what types of prospects, what types of job titles, what types of triggers like acquisitions or new hires or employee growth, things like that. When you see it, you're like, "Oh, that's good for me to reach." And then we want to create messaging that's targeted for that. We want to start to batch our list. So once you've identified, okay, these are the job titles, the triggers, geography, whatever it is that are really good, you want to make separated lists up front so that we can then create targeted le messaging for those lists rather than just spraying and praying broad general outbound prospecting messaging.

Then as I was saying, we want to prep those scripts and templates. So uh we can make a finance template, an HR template, a supply chain template, retail templates, manufacturing like whatever these common triggers and and use cases are you want to create targeted scripts for those and then we can email call LinkedIn whatever targeted messaging to these lists at scale. You can come up with one message for CFOs that specifically work in retail use retail specific messaging and just go go. So before you even start to think about cold calling and emailing, yes, you need to be doing that out of the gate.

This is what I preach. Getting under control first is becoming comfortable with your tools, batching your list, coiling the spring, and building that prospecting engine for yourself. And you've heard me use this term coiling the spring a lot. If you're familiar with my channel, you've definitely heard me talk about it. If you're new, here is the technical definition I've come up with for coiling the spring. So coiling the spring is the process of frontloading all the preparatory prospecting work.

so that execution becomes frictionless. This means defining your ideal customer profiles, your ICPs, batching targeted prospect lists, crafting the script and templates, and setting up your daily workflows all before you start the outreach process. By doing this upfront work, you can then dive into your outreach each day with momentum and confidence. This is the number one killer for new SDRs who are so overwhelmed. It's a new company they joined, new processes. There's things going on internally.

They're learning how to use their tools. They barely understand what they sell or who they sell to yet, the pain points, the value proposition, all of that. And it's so easy to just get overwhelmed. And I know I was this way. When I started out, I had a million things I could be doing. And as a result, I did nothing. It was generally hard for me to make more than $15 a day or send 20 emails a day, which those numbers just aren't good enough because I hadn't done the upfront work to organize myself, but I didn't even know I should be doing that upfront work.

That was the killer. I was just like told to pick up the phone and and rip dials, but I would be calling an IT director, then someone in finance, then someone in HR, and I had to rewire my brain in between every cold call. And as a result, it slowed me down. I felt like I had to do pre-dial research in between calls. So coiling the spring is meant to eliminate that fault that happens when you just wake up and you have to figure out what to do each day. Coiling the spring makes sure you do that up front so that you know what you're doing each day and it just makes the job a lot more frictionless, a lot more enjoyable, quite frankly.

So now when we're getting into creating that messaging for ourselves that we can then take and scale, here are some of the here's the quick and skinny on messaging that wins. And a lot of what I preach is different than what you've probably been taught um from your sales enablement or what you see on YouTube. So or LinkedIn. So email blueprint both are very similar but who why I like to keep it professional threebody framework. I like to use an assumptive tone rather than a passive tone. So what that sounds like is I'm looking to set up some time.

That's assumptive. You're expecting to set up some time rather than would you be open to setting some time. You want to come across as consultative and professional. That's why I don't like these LinkedIn templates that are fake personalization observation. Like shocker, I like to introduce myself in the first line. I think that's professional. I like to say, "My name is Connor Murray and I'm part of the blank team at blank company where I work. That's that's how a consultative person who's genuinely reaching out would start an email." Not like, "Hey, noticed you did this or that your company's focused on this." It sounds like a sales pitch when you do that.

Follow-ups, too. This is key. Follow. Like, you can put all the effort into the initial email and do it right, but lose this expectation in your mind that they're going to respond to that first email. Because from my experience, and I've sent well into the hundreds of thousands of emails at this point and coached tons of people on my processes, 70 to 80% of booked meetings will come from a follow-up, not the initial email. Because a lot of people are just trained even if your email looks targeted and meant for them and personal, they just they get so many they're they don't know or trust that you're an actual real person reaching out and that they're not just on some automated sales cadence blast.

So, it's actually the follow-ups which we can get into, but that direct them down to the initial message and get them to respond. When it comes to cold calling, very similar framework. I preach what I call value statements, which instead of leading off with open-ended qualifying questions and getting them to do a bunch of talking out of the gate and where where you can listen and qualify, I flip that and say you want to be frontloading the value. You just interrupted a busy working professional who's not going to be too enthusiastic about answering a bunch of questions before you've even told them the context of your call.

So within 20 to 30 seconds, they don't even know it's a cold call yet. you get what I call an assumptive formality, which is using a downward flexion. Hey Jim, this is Conor Murray calling from XYZ company. How are you? The goal is to just get a good how are you? Even if they sound confused or not that enthusiastic yet, and then you just immediately hijack like prevent those questions that swirl in their head. Who is this? This is the cold call. How'd they get my number? And just start telling them exactly who you are, why you're calling, what you want.

We're going to show you some examples in a second. Our goal on cold calls is to sell a meeting, not the product. Our goal is to book a qualified meeting with an ideal customer profile of ours. If I sell financial management software and I call a CFO at one of my target accounts, do I care if I've had 5 to 10 minute discovery type qualifying conversation with them on a cold call? No. And nor should your AE. I don't care if that call was 30 seconds long. If I'm an AE and I got a CFO at one of my big accounts on a discovery call, time set up and agreed upon, then that's the goal.

But a lot of times you don't just deliver the value statement and then run away from the phone. It it naturally leads to conversation. It just helps you get off to a stronger foot. But we want to be constantly signaling to the prospect, hey, my goal here isn't to take up 10 to 15 minutes of your time asking qualifying questions. That's actually why I'm reaching out is to set aside a different time to do that when you're not busy or in the middle of your workday. And then when it comes to objection handling too, I sell the tell the same thing, teach the same thing to sell the meeting, not try and handle the objection.

So essentially, you acknowledge their concern, reassert why it makes sense to meet anyway, and then advance recommending the meeting. So here are some examples of what I'm talking about. Try and get my face out of the way here as best I can. Um, here's a bad here. A couple up top are bad examples of email templates and cold call scripts that I commonly see out there. This is kind of like the LinkedIn variations that I see. It'll be like, "Hey, John, noticed blank company is scaling your delivery ops.

Are your dispatchers still manually tracking drivers or routes?" Right off the gate, that's salesy. That like, who are you? you they're going to scan this email and like notice how here I'm I I'll skip to it, but my name is Conor Murray and I'm they know exactly who I am. I come across like a professional. This comes across like a sales pitch. You're spraying and praying. We've been helping companies like blank. No one cares about your success story. Everyone's got the same logos. Cut driver admin time by 20%.

What does that mean to them? Like what is 20%, how do they think they can just do that? They know nothing about my organization. Again, it just sounds spray and prey. Vehicle tracking with tools and no rip and replace setup needed. Maybe worth it. Maybe worth taking a quick look. Worth a chat? I get these emails in my inbox all the time. They're cringeworthy. I know it's fake personalized. I know they're blasting these out and I have no idea who you are. Are you in sales? Are you in marketing? Are you in sales ops?

I don't know. And now looking at a cold call script, here's the same thing. Or actually, you know what? Let's do the variation of the email template that I prefer instead. First, good morning, John. My name is Conor Mary and I'm part of the fleet management team at blank company. So, if I'm reaching out to a fleet manager and I say I'm part of the fleet management team, I instantly sound more relevant or credible to them. We work with fleet operations teams to reduce downtime and improve driver safety.

So, that is the who I am at a high level. Now, we're getting into the why I'm reaching out is we focus on priorities and then I'm going to name three priorities that I think based on the list I made and their job title, their industry, whatever, I think are going to be relevant to them. In this case, I chose vehicle tracking, route optimization, and driver performance. We specifically help fleet operations team monitor assets in real time and improve dispatch efficiency by leveraging AI powered dashboards and live telematics.

So, this is adaptable. I'm not saying this is like the hard framework you need to use, but essentially it's who you are, why you're reaching out, name some priorities that you tend to work on that are likely to be relevant to this person. Tell them how you solve it at a high level without getting too nitty-gritty. And then, do you have availability this week for an introductory call? Or you could say, I'm looking to set up some time this week for an introductory call. Looking forward to it, Connor.

Just a lot more assumptive and professional, and it works at scale. So, now let's get into cold call scripts. This is what I consider a cringe cold call script. So, hi John. This is Connor with Fintech Code. Did I catch you at a bad time? I don't like to ask that. Assume it's a good time. They're they're you're just creating variance for yourself where they're going to be, and I'm going to a meeting. You start getting that defensive tone immediately. I don't want them to be giving answers or doing talking before I've actually gotten into telling them who I am, why I'm calling, what I want.

Then, thanks. Like, assuming they give you the the green light, thanks. I'll be brief. curious. A lot of CFOs I speak with tell me they're focused on automating their monthly close. Like no duh. I noticed most of your recent earnings call or on your most recent earnings call efficiency and automation were mentioned as a top priority. We've actually helped target Delta Delta Airlines and Verizon accelerate their close process by more than 30%. Again, these spray and prey statistics that mean absolutely nothing.

these just named dropping. I get asked this question a lot in your introductory pitch on the cold call where you're actually telling them who you are and what you do. I don't like name dropping customers. I think it comes across as salesy. Is this a priority that's top of mind for you? And if so, how are you tackling this challenge? I just hate how this is structured cuz like it's almost insulting even though you're not trying to be. I know you're like trained to use scripts like this, but it's like you're asking if a CFO is focused on automating or like on improving their month-end close process and whether they're focused on efficiency and automation.

It's like, are you doing your job? Are you focused on your job? That's like essentially what you're asking when you lead off with scripts like this. It's it's manipulative, too. It's like there it's designed to tell them about priorities that you know they're obviously focused on and then asking if it's top of mind for them or if this is a focus for them. It's like no duh. So what I prefer to do instead is frontload the value and there's a couple different frameworks that I can get into on how to do this but I call this a value statement.

I would say hey John this is Conor Murray calling from Fintech Co. How are you? Good. Yeah, I'm just reaching out because I'm part of the financial applications team here that supports the XYZ vertical and we mainly focus on priorities around monthend close automation. So improving reconciliation workflows, automating manual journal entries, things like that. Usually by helping teams centralize the close process and then cut down the reliance on spreadsheets. So I'd be your main point of contact here for any priorities you may have in these areas going forward, resources you may need, anything like that.

And here what I actually like to do is is basically pause and just say and I just wanted to make sure I reached out and properly introduced myself and kind of get their feedback to that first before going to the meeting. But you can also just go straight for the meeting. You might need to tighten it up a little bit if you do that to keep it to 30 seconds, but just going for the meeting and saying, "Yeah, and I know I kind of called you out of the blue here, too. So, I was actually more looking to set some time aside later this week just to get introduced and align with any priorities you have in these areas going forward.

How's your calendar look on Wednesday or Thursday? If you do this enough and you get the talk track down and you deliver it confidently in 20 to 30 seconds and you deliver it to enough ICPs, you will statistically start to book meetings. And the beauty of this is when the prospect says hello, I don't any longer have to have this cold call anxiety about what's going to happen, what are they going to say when I ask them if I catch you at a bad time or when I lead off with my open-ended question. I know exactly what I'm going to do for the next 30 seconds.

I'm going to deliver this pre-prepared value statement that I targeted for their job title, for their industry that I have rehearsed over and over and over again that I know is on point. And at the very least, I'm going to come across like a credible consultative person and not a cold caller spraying and praying their pitch. So, I got a lot more videos on this. You can check out cold call mastery too if you want a lot more hands-on guidance actually creating these scripts and implementing this whole process for yourself.

But I really just wanted to show the the distinction between what's taught out there and and what actually works for a lot of people in practice. So now let's get into the daily game plan actually implementing all of this. So the 8 hour SDR blueprint I preach using a simple structure that helps you drive both volume and quality. Don't listen to all these LinkedIn influencers who are they they usually go either one or the other. And and recently it's been on quality. Like don't worry about volume.

Just do high targeted five emails a day, 10 emails a day. That's what matters is quality. And anyone tell like when you're an SDR and you got a quota to book like 15, 20 meetings a month. You better believe you got to be also doing volume. They don't have your best interests in mind if they're just telling you to send like five super personalized emails per day because statistically you're just not going to get enough responses. The ABAB cadence, I preach this a lot where essentially you alternate using those lists, alternate emails and calls for easy rhythm and consistency.

So a lot of cadences you'll be given out there like call day one but don't leave a voicemail. Email day two and then send a LinkedIn connection request. call day three and leave a voicemail this time. Then day four, leave a LinkedIn note. Day five, second email. And it's like, how are you supposed to stay on top of that for a 100 prospects every week or 200 prospects every week? And it'll go on for 15 touch points, which we can get into as well. I think that's way too long. But I like to keep it nice and simple.

If you email a list on Monday, call them on Tuesday. Email them Wednesday, call them Thursday. It's ab every other day. Okay. And you kind of want to be alternating lists, too. So, I'll have a list I email on Monday, and I'll have a different list I email on Tuesday. And essentially, every day when you wake up, you just look at what you did yesterday. Did I email that list? Okay, I'm going to call them today. Oh, I called that list yesterday. That means I'm going to email them today. And it's super easy to stay on top of at scale.

And if you have the right messaging in place, it works. And it will book you enough meetings. This is what makes jobs start to feel like a game, too. Every touch is a shot on net or a chance of booking them a meeting and you play to rack up enough attempts and almost every outreach, every call, every email you make almost has a dollar value associated with with it. That's what makes it feel like a game. And here's an example of how you can implement this. You don't need this complex daily schedule.

Just doing looking at your schedule like this alone, this is how I've always done it in the past is 8 to 9:30 a.m. That is my email block. I will pick my list of CFOs that work in retail. I will get my CFO leadership retail template and I will just crank out like put the headset on, drink my coffee, get the blood flowing and just crank out emails. If you do that the right way, you can get a hundred out the door manually in this time period. Easy. Then take a little break. Late morning is when I call.

So now maybe I got my controllers that work in life science list and I'm just going to call them straight for two hours. I got a hundred of them on a list. I'll get as many done as I can in this time block. Take some lunch. There's always miscellaneous stuff that comes up. You can use this for LinkedIn if you want. You can do more strategic targeting prospect. Maybe your AE called out a couple people or accounts to specifically go after or there's just some internal meetings you got to filled. You can use this time for that.

And then at the end of the day, calls. So you know what list you're the key is to come into the day because you've coiled the spring. you know exactly what list you're going to be emailing that day and exactly what list you're going to call and then you just flip it on the next day. So that's getting more deep into this ABAB cadence because it's a really important piece of this SDR blueprint is it's meant to be a simple repeatable outreach rhythm alternating email and call touch points. So, every week you're going to start with a group A and a group B.

Two different prospect lists running in parallel. And on Monday, you're going to email stay, call B. This is what I mean by flipping it. And then Tuesday, you're going to call A, email B. Wednesday, email A, call B, so on. I hope you get the point. But every other day, you're alternating between email, call, email call. And if you want to know, generally I recommend doing six or seven touch points. So, usually four or five emails and three or four calls. You're not going to always be able to call every single person you email if you're doing email right, but in the end they get six or seven touch points in about 7 to 10 days.

I like to hit them hard in a condensed concise period of time and then move on to the next list rather than going the distance to like 15 touch points because the the response rates just drop off dramatically and you're better off just moving on to a fresh list. So, follow-ups are built in. again, like when you're emailing group A on Monday, this email on Wednesday is a follow-up. So that's built in. You generally want to follow up three or four times every other day at a minimum. Don't wait longer than 48 hours in between follow-ups.

It keeps the momentum going and it avoids overthinking like those cadences I was talking about LinkedIn touch point with a simple message or or voicemail on Wednesday. It's like when you insert too many steps, it hard it becomes too hard to do things at scale, which is critical in the SDR role is being able to prospect at scale and it helps keep a predictable structure and just keeps you more efficient. So the formula, the way I like to think about it is relevant value-based messaging, which you've created when you coiled the spring plus volume plus doing that consistently is what leads to more meetings booked.

the more relevant messaging that you can get into the hands of your relevant target personas, the better off you're going to be. So, another key area to think about because it it helps you actually do all of this at scale is the tools you have at your disposal, AI, and just how efficient you are in general. So, I get asked a lot, Greg, Connor, this is great. It makes sense, but my company has these tools or I have to do things manually in spreadsheets and it takes me three hours. like how are you getting enough people on these lists?

And when you break it down, first principles, these are the must-have cap. I don't care what tools you have or how many, these are the only things you need to be able to do to implement this process at scale effectively. You need a be an accurate enough B2B contact database. You need to be able to go into that database and filter prospects that you're looking for by your desired criteria. So people that work in a certain department like finance departments, HR departments, and you need to be able to do it by job title.

So CFOs that work in a certain industry. That's another thing. Be able to filter by industry, geography, whatever your key triggers are. You need to be able to go in that database and just filter leads. Once you have them filtered, so you've gone from like 10,000 to 600 to 123 that fit the exact criteria you're looking for, you need to be able to just add them to a list. It shouldn't be able, it shouldn't be this super complex manual process where you're exporting them into four different tools and doing it on spreadsheets.

It should just be a click of a button. Now, you can use your CFO in retail. You got to 123 of them on a list. And then on that list, you need to be able to just pull up their contact card, be able to call or email them. You can do these things. Filter leads, add them to lists, and contact them one by one. You have what you need. Then when you start to think about leveraging AI, so creating projects, GPTs, there's even agents. Now, you'll see a lot of stuff on my channel coming out about this because I'm really starting to use it heavily in my day-to-day workflow, but there's some lowhanging fruit you definitely want to be using AI for to at least assist you in what you're currently doing or even help you simultaneously while you're focused on other things.

So, account research, no longer do you need to spend an hour digging through 10Ks and websites and reading about me. AI can help you do this. Territory intelligence, like keeping up with triggers, relevant news, events on the accounts in your territory. Crafting cold call scripts, crafting email templates, even little things like calendar agendas. You book a meeting, you want to be able to just throw that into a GPT and and write a professional agenda for yourself. I actually have a video on that.

I can link to it. um discovery call prep. Even if it's just helping your AE prepare for a discovery call, having a preset format in chat, GPT, Gemini, whatever you use, call recap notes, competitor battle cards. There's so much lowhanging fruit where AI can save you hours of time every single week. So then when it comes to operating efficiently as an SDR, always keep these principles in mind. Simple is better than complicated wherever possible. less more repeatable over random. Doing one thing well on occasion is not as good like really well 10 out of 10 is not as good as being able to do it at a seven out of 10 effectiveness but in 10 times the volume.

You want to tra like repeatable over random and then consistent over occasional. Similar point better off rather than doing one thing well a few times per week doing it pretty well very consistently. This goes for most things in life, I think, not just sales, but we won't get too deep into that. So then when it comes to optimizing your process and kind of starting to get to this place where you've almost gified the role where you know inputs need to be done every week and you it can expect certain outputs from it.

The philosophy that I look at for just the STR role as a whole is you want to optimize your daily structure to maximize targeted messaging output. The SDR role is about getting valuebased messaging into the hands of as many relevant personas and targeted accounts as pos as possible as frequently as possible. So gamification when SDRs can track these inputs and outputs you want to start you don't need to do this in your first 30 days but when you can start to track things you understand the why behind your results and you know where you need to focus to improve and it helps you optimize your process measure results and then improve outputs.

So some of the metrics you can be looking at that you can be measuring that are super easy to stay on top of is one call volume. So for cold calls it's how many calls am I making? How many people are answering those calls? How many meetings am I setting when I actually get the real live person on a call and how many people are showing up to those meetings. You can track that very simply in a four column spreadsheet. How many call did I make? How many answered? How many set? How many showed? When it comes to email, those metrics you can track are again volume.

How many emails did I send? How many emails got opened? How many replied? And then when they replied, how many led to a meeting? And then how many showed again? Because different bottlenecks mean different things. Like if you're not getting enough. So like let's say you're not booking enough meetings over email. That could be for a bunch of different reasons. Are you getting a lot of replies, but those replies are bad? It probably means you need to work on the value part of like what priorities and challenges you solve and how you solve them.

Or are you not booking enough meetings because you're just not getting enough opens? Then it's like are you sending the emails at the right time of day? What subject line are you using? Things like that. So there can be different symptoms of the same of a of the same problem. Not booking enough meetings can mean different things. And it helps you understand where you need to focus and on average what you need to do to get certain results. And then we can look at quota attainment metrics too. So if you're not hitting quota or if you want to be doing better than where you're currently doing, you can look at meeting conversions like when I set meetings, how many of them turn into qualified opportunities if that's one of your KPIs.

Average pipeline per OP, which is your total pipeline divided by number of qualified ops. And then your average pipeline per meeting. So total pipeline divided by total meetings. Again, different symptoms can mean different things, but these are some basic metrics that you can start tracking that will, in my opinion, help make the job more fun. And I get a lot of questions on staying motivated in cold calling or different activities, things like that. This is how I do it. You can watch a motivational video and fire you up for a couple days.

But this when you actually understand the why behind your results and start attacking them one by one, it just gives you the confidence that you know what you need to do to get to where you want to go. So to summarize it all as simply as I can, simple systems beat flashy sales tax tactics. Execution over inspiration said every SDR who's ever hit quota. So, I wanted to give you the no fluff, as concise as possible, what you need to be focusing on. If you want more hands-on guidance actually implementing this stuff in your own role, you can check out the links in the description below if you want to work with me directly.

But if not, no worries. Hope you got some value out of this and I will see you on the next
