# Cold Call vs. Cold Email: Which One Books More Meetings in 2025?

**Expert:** Connor Murray

**Rank:** 3

**Metadata Score:** 244

**Published:** 2025-07-21

**Duration:** 00:31:50

**Views:** 3,827

**Likes:** 118

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vRWBrICtZTU

---

# Transcript

All right, Chris, what's going on, man? Connor, not much. Looking forward to this one. Agreed. Cold cold call versus cold email, which is booking more meetings these days. I don't know about you, it's a question I'm getting even more frequently than normal with everything that's changed with like AI and automation and chat GPT the past few years. I think there's a right time and place to focus on one versus the other. I'm seeing it a lot from new SDRs. They're like, should I focus and double down on cold calling or emailing?

How do I approach learning both? Should I should I be doing both at the same time? And then even more experienced SDRs or AEES, they're trying to figure out is one channel worth doubling down on versus another. I think there's a lot of different variables whether you're in an SMB, mid-market, enterprise territory, how big's that territory, what are your KPIs, how many meetings do you need to book, things like that. So, looking forward to diving into this one with you. But I thought it would be cool if we just started off.

you wanted to share how you approached it when you started as an SDR at Vanta thinking about cold call email balancing both. Yeah. Yeah. So I was actually I was an SDR at Hashi Corp first and when I first got started over there I was selling to a very complex persona and so I was kind of in this phase of I wanted to learn the skill set of both and I kind of thought at the time that the variable was oh well people you know just aren't doing cold calling right. Yeah. And I saw a lot of advice online, a lot of advice on LinkedIn about, hey, this magic script, this you know, magic thing that you can say on a cold call and just get everybody over the phone.

Yeah. Or or, you know, to book a meeting. And so that's kind of how I started out as I was testing out, you know, both of them. But I realized very quickly that there's a lot of factors that play into it. But I will say when I was first getting started, um, I really valued building out the cold calling aspect of it because I think far too often people start and they get super comfortable or complacent with the emails, especially if they're selling at a large organization, you know, they got some brand name recognition.

It's really easy to just go in there and copy like the top performer sequence and start getting some baseline results and then they never really develop the cold calling aspect or any sort of skill set in that area. and they get promoted to SMBA and they're just kind of like, oh like what's going on here? So, I think for me it was super valuable to build the skill set even though my ICP wasn't necessarily super uh resonating with cold calls like basically selling to you know developers sitting in dungeons and you know they didn't really like to be cold called at all like they preferred email.

Um, but I think there's a lot of value in learning that skill set first, even if you're selling to a specific persona, even if you can get away with cold emailing. Um, I feel like there's a lot of value in building that skill set. 100% agreed. That's where I started out. It's a double-edged sword because if you're looking for the answer, which one tends to book more meetings quickly? I think it's email to your point because it's so easy to just go in and copy what's proven and had other reps have had success with and just implement it and there's no tonality you need to be worried about.

You can have imposttor syndrome, but if you're sending a good template to the right target personas at a high enough volume, chances are you're going to book meetings. But the trap people fall into is if they learn that too early before learning how to cold call, they get too complacent and they don't go through the pain and the trial and error of learning how to cold call, which I think is arguably a more important skill to learn. So I think that's how I started out as well. I just went in with the mindset that sales was all about cold calling and that's what I focused on coming in.

I'm like, I have to learn how to cold call. That's what sales is. I'm And I'm glad I did that because for about the first six months, my first two quarters as an SDR, I'd say, I basically got by just grinding my teeth, going into a room every single day and just ripping a 100 dials and sent almost no emails. And it was hard, but that it was those 6 months that forced me to master that skill set. And if I had learned email before that, I don't know if I would have put myself through the trial and error of learning how to do that.

So, I just I think it's a like I said a double-edged sword because email's definitely easier to get going quickly. I think if especially if you're like any managers listening, like you can give your reps good templates out of the gate and they can start getting results, but don't don't help don't make help them get too cozy with it because otherwise they won't force themselves to learn how to cold call, right? Well, even if they have the skill set of, you know, like doing a bunch of emailing, like if you get really strong at that, if you have all your sequences built out and like you're just cranking out, like if you don't have the capability or comfortability with like picking up the phone sometimes cuz like sometimes you have to just pick up the phone.

There's some people that just don't respond to emails cuz they get too many or you know, maybe there's like a same day change or you've got to like multi-thread somebody else in like even if you're a brand new STR, you've got to be able to like pick up the phone and just have a quick phone call with somebody sometimes. And so if you're just completely neglecting that part of it when you're first starting out, it's not necessarily something that is going to show maybe in your SDR tenure days, like you can get away with it and you could probably still be a top performer if you're at a top logo.

If you know you have like a huge book of business where you can just hit like 200,000 leads and not have to worry about it. Like you'll get away with it. But if you're not building that skill now and early on, then it's only going to compound. It's going to get more awkward. It's going to get more uncomfortable when you finally have to pick up that phone. You're like, "Shit, I don't know what I'm doing. sales and I don't know how to pick you know I I think another thing that prevented me and again this was a blessing in disguise from learning focusing on email those first 6 months too is I did try and write a few emails and I tried a few some templates and I would try and write these emails from scratch I'd spend like 30 minutes 40 minutes writing what I thought was like the best email ever sent to a CFO and then just not get a response and I'm like could have made 20 30 dials in that same time period cold email is a waste of time but I kind of figured figured out a different strategy.

Maybe we'll touch on it in this video on how to actually write emails more effectively. But once I did that in the second 6 months and was starting to use both, now the job didn't feel like a grind. Like I was getting to my number through cold calls, but every day was a grind. It wasn't until I also learned an effective cold email strategy and started using both that the job my numbers basically doubled performance-wise and every day felt easier and more predictable in terms of the results I was going to get.

So maybe that's a good transition into what are the pro like I think we both agree people should be using both but what are some of the pros and cons of cold email versus cold call in your eyes and what should people be taking into account? Yeah, I think I think cold calling is definitely it's just a thing where you'll build a little bit more of an intimate connection with somebody like if you pick up the phone you kind of have them right there like they don't really have a chance to get out of it and you just learn like there's also a lot of objection handling that you learn.

So, a lot of those skills, especially if you're an STR, you're first starting out and you're looking to build up like a necessary skill set to transition into a potential Ay, and I know we talk a lot about like, you know, skill development, all those different things. Like, there's also another component of this, which is just top performance, like how do I maximize? But I think the pros of cold calling is obviously one, like you're just building the skill set that will directly transfer over to whenever you become an AE.

like you can take a lot of that objection handling like I would actually say it's far harder to like handle those objections like on the spot during a cold call than when you get like an inbound lead or when you get like a person that's willing to meet with you like the frame is already there like when you're just on the on the phone with somebody and you have to like book a meeting it's a whole different environment and tension and so I think a lot of people just even I see a lot of AES that ironically enough are just terrible at cold calling but are great at discovery.

So I think that speaks to like how hard of a skill set it actually is. And SDRs I think typically just undermine it. They don't think about like what does this mean? Like if I get really good at this, how how much of an impact will that have on me? Especially when you go into like a panel interview and you know you have you've never run a discovery call before. Yeah. The person who's really good at cold calling is going to really like learn the discovery aspect so much faster and be able to execute better.

So that's that's one part of it. I think the skill development is obviously a huge pro of the cold calling aspect, but also just having people like right there. You can tackle their objections. You can still get to a meeting. Like there's just ways of overcoming that versus with email, like they don't have to respond to you. They don't really have to answer. Um, but I think the other side of email is that it's scalable. Yep. So, but you know, scalable can both be a good and a bad thing because if you have a huge list of leads, then yeah, like you can send really shitty like messaging to like 100,000 people and you will get meetings, right?

Cuz if you're selling at like a massive company and a lot of the times it's just about timing. Like it's not even it's not about like the perfect email that you write. Like you can you can have the worst email, but like if they've already evaluated 95% of your solution, the SDR's outreach is not going to be the determining factor in whether or not they take a meeting. Like they already know what your product does, how it'll help them, like they're just not ready yet. Y, right? So, a lot of the times it just comes down to timing.

If you're selling out one of those large organizations, but if you're not selling out one of those large organizations, I think it differs a lot more because now you don't have that brand name recognition to to fall back on. Now, it's not about the timing, right? There's a whole lot of other variables. So I think in that case again like there's so many layers to just peel back. But in that case I think cold calling becomes a lot more valuable. Agreed because now you can pitch your product right you can actually see and and you're really like in the trenches.

You're learning direct feedback from these potential prospects. So, even if you're early stage, pre-product market fit, like there's so much value versus if you're just sending out a ton of emails, like you're going to be one of like 10,000 other people that, you know, are just blowing up their inbox with an AI agent or something else. So, I think that it really just depends. But hopefully that I'll be curious. I have a similar perspective. I think with cold calling, it's not as scalable. It's harder to get yourself to cold call.

you have to face a lot of rejection. There's I think the the cons are very apparent and that's why so few people do it. Like I think a lot of people pretend they cold call, but in reality I argue that less than 20% of sales reps, this includes SDRs and AEES actually make cold calls and those are the main reasons. But to your point, it's the skill set, but also there's just tonality, conviction, and things you can communicate in a cold call that you simply will not be able to communicate over an email.

With cold call, it's even less important how dialed in your message is as long as Yeah, it makes sense and it's in their realm. But there are meetings you will book with average me average cold call messaging delivery, but because you just sound so confident like you've been here and done this before, I mean, you can get to a point where if you get 10 people live that are that fit your ICP, good cold callers can book two or three of those meetings. Good luck booking two to three meetings for every 10 opens you get on email for those same ICPs.

So cold calling is the highest quality form of outreach in my opinion. It cuts through the noise. I see a lot of top reps and leaders prioritizing cold calling more than ever because not not as many people as you all think are actually getting these cold calls. Their email inboxes are blown up. Their phones are not as at least as not as much as you think. So you can set the highest quality meetings over cold call. The show rates oftentimes I've found are higher because if you've actually done a good job and they're like, "Oh, that person sounded like they knew what they were talking about.

I'm actually interested in what they have to say on this call." The show rates are higher. Those meetings convert to opportunities at a higher rate. So cold calling, I think, is the number one outbound channel, and I think it will continue to be. But on the flip side, email, the huge advantage, to your point, is how scalable it is. You can't ignore it, especially if you have one of those big territories. there's just leads you won't be able to call. Like if you have 20,000 people in your territory, you're simply not going to be able to call all of them consistently.

You can email. So like to your point about a lot of times it's a timing thing. I learned that as an SDR, I didn't have the biggest territory. Um but when I did start emailing, I got every single lead in my territory or prospect a initial email and a three follow-up touch point cadence, which was essentially the playbook I ran. I hit them all within a three-month period. And at the end, I'm like, I'm screwed. Like, I booked some meetings. I got some nos. Some didn't reply. And I'm like, I'm screwed.

I'm not getting a new territory. I'm not getting new accounts. I thought my messaging was pretty good. I don't know what I would change. So, I'm just going to run it back. And the more dialed into the process I got, I ended up running it back with all of those leads. So, like initial email and three follow-ups, that's one. I did that six times per in about a like 6 to 8 month span. And there were people responding the third time around, the fourth time around, the fifth time around, not even acknowledging because they don't remember.

They get so many emails, they just think it's a new email. And and to your point, a lot of times it's a timing thing and they see some priority that I mentioned in my email and they're like, "Oh, that came up with my boss 2 weeks ago. Maybe I should meet with this person." So that's the huge advantage over email is scale. And then I think, yeah, it changes a lot. I think the more name brand rec or name recognition your company has generally I define that as like if your company's public chances are you can leverage your name brand a bit and it's more about just getting your getting targeted messaging in the hands of targeted ICPs as frequently as possible and as repeatable as possible because you will get people who bite where again it's sometimes it's a timing thing but the more you do that you're gonna it's going to be a background I like to call it just a background engine that can get you a few meetings per and then cold calls is where I focus on the more high quality outreach.

But if you're balancing both and you got meetings coming in from both, I think that's that's the sweet sweet spot. So yeah, I agree with that. I also think it's it's kind of interesting because people end up just leading in one direction over the other. Yeah. And I think the benefit of being at a large organiz like it just changes. It changes at every single level. So we're not trying to like, you know, cheap out of this by any means, but it's just so hard to pinpoint and say this is better than that.

It's really not like that. But it's, you know, if you're at a large organization and you have access to data, well, you can also just go inside of your CRM and just look at like, hey, what are the top performers doing? Exactly. If you're seeing consistently that there's a lot more resonance with one over the other, well, maybe that's a good proxy that like you should hold in on that. Yeah. Right. But I do think there's value in both. Like if you're selling at a company that just has brand name recognition, you're going to be successful with both.

Like you can be equally as good. So maybe there's something there about personality. Like personally, I I leaned in a lot on the email aspect, but I didn't neglect the cold calling part, especially when I was in an SMB territory and I was now closing deals, like picking up the phone and just being able to like progress a deal. Like, if I wouldn't have cold called early on in my career, I didn't I wouldn't have had that skill set. And so, yeah, I had the sequences running for me, but I also was able to pick up the phone and because of that cold calling experience, I'm not using both.

Like, you're using both very intelligently. And as an SDR, you don't have to worry too much about it because all you're doing is prospecting. Yeah. Right. You have all the time in the world. Like you probably even can like relax a little bit, like you know, create your own schedule. But whenever you become an AE now, you've got like seven meetings on your calendar. You don't have time for, you know, one over the other. Like you just have to be very selective and you have to like it has to be qualitative, right?

Like whatever you do, it has to bring results. You don't have time to like test around different things. So you need to have both of those elements dialed in. Like the sequences are super impactful at least for or they were impactful for me when I was in SMBEE because they were just running in the background. You just create different sequences depending on the different scenarios. Like you've got a closed loss one, you've got one depending on like where they're at, like if they were activated like from a usage standpoint.

Yeah. Right. Like you create all these sequences for yourself and I think that's where things get lost. Like I see people that are really good at cold calling that are like oh like I'm not going to focus on cold emailing because it just doesn't work. Yeah. But they're just doing it completely incorrect. you could spend 30 minutes in a day or an hour and like quadruple your outreach from cold calling. So, it's like why not? You have 30 minutes, why not do it? Um, I think one last pro to mention about cold email, we've kind of touched on it, but to make it more clear too about cold email is that it can be black and white.

Like if you have top performing templates that you've seen work in follow-ups and sequences and you just implement it, you can be pretty confident that statistically you're going to get similar to performance as to what you see from the internal data like in sales loft or something where cold calling you could have the same script as a top performer, but if your tonality is off, your pacing's off, you're not as ready to handle objections on the fly, there's no guarantee of or like statistic statistical probability of you performing in line with top reps.

So, yeah, there's just a lot of variables I think that impact it. I guess we've touched on some in terms of how people need to be thinking about this in terms of like if you're in SMB territory, mid-market, enterprise, how many prospects you have. What are some of these other areas you see in terms of like that answer? It depends which one's better. What What is it that depends? Yeah, I would say maybe starting out like first of all, which stage is your organization in Right. Well, actually, no, let me let me backtrack.

Like, if you're starting out, if you're starting out, I think the answer is always build up that cold calling skill set. Yeah. Like, I I think the further down your career that you get and if you neglect it, it's going to get more and more uncomfortable. You're going to you're going to tend to steer away from it cuz like by 6 months or by seven months or whatever, like even after three months, you're going to have figured out a portion of the emailing aspect. Yeah. And you're not going to want to go back.

But you're going to be getting subpar results and you're maybe like able to get to 80% of your number like 85. Like it's cozy, it's chill, like you're not going to get put on like an action plan. You're kind of in the middle of the pack. Like you don't really have to worry about things. So I would say regardless if we remove all the other variables, I think just cold calling, always develop that skill set. The earlier you can develop it, the better it is because otherwise it's going to get way worse for you down the road.

Mh. I think from there you start looking at like which stage is your organization in like do you actually have a moat where you have anything that you can tap into? Like I start there. I always tell people and our students instead of going out there and trying to reinvent the wheel like let's see if there's something internally that you can just emulate, right? Is there some sort of proven success in either one of those two that can allow us to like hone a little bit more? And you're right, like there's a lot more variables in cold calling.

I see a lot of people even if they have access to Outreach or Sales Loft or whatever and they have the the actual recordings, they just think, "Let me just write down the exact script." Yeah. And they just jump on. They get one curveball and they're like, "Yeah." It's just like and even the way that they answer things like it's a lot about like tone. I've seen people nail their cringiest lines in the world and I've seen other people just absolutely like butcher them. So, I think you also got to find your style, right?

But I think start there of is there anything internally that is proven to work? Yeah. Because when you're first starting out, you're just trying to remove all the variables. You're just trying to speed up uh the pace at which you're going to hit your number. That's the most important thing. Otherwise, you're going to get into this spot where you're stressing out about like quota and whatnot. Um I think once you get into the role a little bit deeper and once you have some tenure, I think it becomes very relevant to start like layering in email.

Like that's what I personally did. I think a a large portion of my work as an SDR was kind of just automated because I had I started building up these sequences. I started noticing like what were the signals internally for before a lead would actually become like an MQL. And so instead of waiting around for the lead to become an MQL, I would actually be proactive and say, "Oh, well, I know that marketing events are super hot. So, let me actually make sure that I can touch all those leads if they're invited to an event, right?

Not wait until afterward." like if if they've actually opted into a marketing event, like an in-person marketing event, even the people that don't show up are still like very qualified leads. So, like I would be building out these different lists, but you're not going to have that knowledge when you first start out. Like you might look at a certain um you know, like lead list or something else and you think, I understand this. I just take this template and I'll just replicate it and I'll just send it out to 200,000 people.

That's not really how it works. You've got to figure out like what's the context. Maybe there's a small small tiny subset of people where this one sequence works. And so over time you build up those sequence and you're going to have like one for marketing events. You're going to have one for closed loss. You're going to have one for re-engagements. You're going to have one like you're going to have all these different ones. Maybe even if you're covering different territories, you're going to have one for SMB, one for mid-market, one for enterprise.

So I think as you go along, you start getting more and more into cold emailing. Yeah, that's something that you layer on, you build, and over time it becomes efficient. But anyway, I I'd love to get your thoughts to it. Yeah, the way I've looked at it is agreed. You got to focus on cold calling first and implementing a basic email structure. So like for example, when I was an SDR manager, I'd get these new reps and I'd be like, "Guys, I know you probably have imposttor syndrome. We're reaching out to CFOs, VPs of IT, PE, people who've been doing this in their space for 30, 40 plus years.

And a lot of times these were first year out of college graduates who had never done this before. I'm like, I'm going to give you email templates that I know physically work. Here are follow-ups. I'm going to walk you through the motions and we'll start getting you some basic emails or meetings that way. And I found that was really impactful because a lot of reps until they get until they set that first meeting actually get on that call, see how one of those discovery calls are run with their AE.

They're like, "Oh, I get how this works. I get what I'm actually calling about now. So, I found it was important to get them quick wins from from email, but the skill set you needed to focus on building first was cold calling. We can implement a basic email structure that will start booking you meetings and then you'll dial that in over time as you start to just recognize patterns and things like that. But I think email is a must to implement at a at a base level when you're starting out. But you can't fall in the trap of just relying on that and skipping the cold calling.

Because if we're looking at both, which one's more likely to get automated away the next 3 to 5 years, it's probably email. I found email, email is still a must. You can still book meetings consistently from it, but it's starting the effectiveness is starting to dwindle a little bit because a lot of people just have email fatigue. So that's why it's important to balance both. I think just in about any territory you're in, I think you prioritize email a bit more if you're if you have a large territory with a lot of prospects, you need to have that automated going on in the background because otherwise there's just so many prospects and leads you otherwise wouldn't cold call enough times.

So, but then it can change. That's one of the variables where I think it depends if you have a smaller I used to be an enterprise SDR manager where some of these people only had 10 15 accounts. You can't exactly just spray and prey emails in a territory like that or you're you're going to burn some bridges. So you have to be a little bit more strategic about it. I think another variable to take into account is what are your KPIs? So if you have to book 20 like I usually see in the range of 15 to 30 usually like 15 to 20 is what I see meetings per month per SDR is like a standard um KPI they need to hit.

You're probably you need email in order to hit that. like you either you're really good at cold calling, but especially if you're new and you're still working out the kinks, you're probably not getting there just through the phone, you need to have some meetings coming in on the background through email if you're going to hit your KPIs. If you only have to book five meetings per month and they all are super qualified, then maybe you double down on the phone because that's where you're going to get more qualified meetings.

So, I think a lot of it it's not just a black and white answer, which one's better, which one you should double down on. You got to think about what type of territory am I am I in? What type of organization am I at? Do I have name recognition? Do I not? What are my KPIs? Do I need to set a ton of meetings? That's what always frustrates me a lot of times is when I see reps that have I have to book 25 meetings per month, but the KPIs I they all have to have all 10 of these questions answered and and be super qualified beforehand.

And it's like that's a little crazy. But you're going to need email to hit. If your number's above 15, you're going to need email for sure. Yeah. Um, but you got you're you're gonna need both regardless. Yeah. Yeah. I'd almost go out on a whim. I mean, I think for early stage startups, I think the cold calling aspect just is more effective, especially to get product market fib. I would be curious to get your thoughts on you've obviously like you've sold at every single level. You've been SDR manager.

Like maybe we remove the variable of like small company versus like large organization. Like maybe if we focus in on the segment like which territory that you're selling in. Do do you or do you feel like you've seen a trend in one being more affected than the other as you've gone more up market as you've kind of moved up the ladder? So a little bit but not much. I think people overindex on they'll I I work with a lot of they'll be an SMB SDR and they'll get moved to an enterprise territory and they're like Connor like this is like what do I do?

like they're going to I'm like these I have seen it all. The same tactics in what books a meeting with a CFO at a 500 person company an SMB is 95% the same at what books with a VP of finance at an enterprise company with over 10,000 employees. It's the same tactics there. Yes, there's nuances and a lot of like with SMB it's more about your strategy in terms of you have to cover a much larger you have a lot more ground to cover. You're going to have to set aside more strategic accounts so you're not just blindly spraying and praying where enterprise you often times have to be a little bit more strategic.

You can take things you learn on cold calls like specific priority names, things like that, departmental level goals and then reference that in your email. But from what I've found, the key variables are, let's take email for example, quality plus volume plus consistency to the right ICPs, books meetings. Whether you're in an SMB, mid-market, or enterprise territory, if they see priorities, if what you're saying resonates, and they're like, "This is important to me. This person seems like it might be worth setting up 20 to 30 minutes to speak with, and I could potentially learn more or they could potentially be a valuable resource." What books meetings in SMB and enterprise is the same.

I think what changes is your strategy in terms of how much you're leveraging email in one versus the other. I think in in smaller cold calling is more important when you don't have as much name recognition, things like that. Yeah. Yeah. I kind of realized you have to throw out at least in SMB I felt like I had to cover a large like there's a lot more territory. There's a lot more counts. Like you kind of just have to throw out something and see what sticks. Whereas I felt like as I was moving up because I covered both SMB as an SDR then I moved up to like enterprise strategic and that shift was actually pretty interesting.

You're right though like the principles remain the same across the entire thing. Um but like specialization wise I didn't have as much time when I was in SMB to like specialize. I that's what I tried to do in the beginning. I was like oh my gosh like if I just hit the right person with the right messaging but I was like I've got like 200,000 accounts like that. I'm just sitting here and I you know so at that point it was more like hey let me get the messaging straight. Let me make sure I can buck it up my ICPs into like their respective groups and then throw out something that is like 85% of the way there.

Exactly. Right. But then as I got more up market, I realized actually I had like I had more leverage. Like I had more information on the accounts. I had more information that I could actually tap into. So it's I wouldn't even call it like coal calling anymore. It was more like worm calling. Yeah, that's a good way to put it. And and you're calling people and like again timing is big, right? Yeah, like there's a ton of closed loss and and this varies a lot depending on like how big your territory is and how much you're covering, how many reps you're covering, too.

Um, but I realized at that point like the game kind of shifted for me personally where now it was more about like let me call this guy and reference like the past conversation or reference what's been going on this other department of the business and that helped me out a lot more versus if I tried to throw out too large of a net. I only had like 250 accounts, 300 accounts that I was covering at that point. So obviously it changes like based on how much ground that you have to cover. Like if you only have 300 counts, well yeah, you got you got to be a little bit more selective.

You only have so many people to hit, right? But if you have 400,000 or 200,000 like at these huge companies, yeah, you can just you can spray and pray and like see what happens. And so it's kind of a Yeah, it varies. Yeah. So, uh do we have a final verdict, man? I would be curious like because we we see a lot of stuff just across like all of our students and I know that you've obviously been tailgating the uh the cold call mastery, the cold email mastery and you've taught so many different people.

Like I'll give my verdict but I want to hear yours. I my verdict is both. You have to use both but cold calling I think is the most important. I think the best reps, both STRs and AEES that I know all know how to cold call effectively. It's a much rarer skill. I mean, if you just think about it logically, like I was saying earlier, less than 20%, it might even be less than 10% of reps actually consistently cold call. It's such a rare, unique skill. Generally, things that are scarce are more valuable.

Even if you just look in the investing world, the assets that do the best are generally scarce and hard to come by. You can't just make more of it. Anyone can email, anyone can copy and automate emails. It is a key part of your workflow, but if you know how to cold call, I think it differentiates you. And I think it's going to become more important going into the future than ever, honestly. So, but that's to say, don't just use cold call. Like, you need to also be using email due to its scalability.

And there's ways to make it more targeted and each email increase the odds that they both reply and accept your your request to meet. But um if you only had to pick one, I would focus on the phone is my answer. Yeah. Yeah. I would probably say the same. I mean, it's probably more because you can always learn email. Like email is they're both an art, but I feel like email is a lot more you can tap into proven messaging and you can tailor it. It's a lot easier to do. What you need to learn with email is how to implement and scale it.

Like it's easy to get good messaging, but that doesn't mean it's easy to book meetings over email. It's more about how you're segmenting your territory, creating your list, identifying triggers like you were pointing out earlier. How can I tweak my templates to make it more targeted for that trigger, get it 85 90% of the way there where it is a very good solid message that I can then send at scale and then how do you send it at scale and stay consistent with it. I think that's the important part with email.

Um, not like the me the messaging itself is pretty easy to get down. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I think if I had to TLDDR it, I mean, definitely cold calling. Um, I think look internally, like see if there's anything that you can leverage. Like obviously if everybody is just crushing it with cold email, maybe lean into that, but don't neglect the cold calling aspect. It's going to become so much more important. Like especially if you're early on your career, like you need to have that skill set. Otherwise, it's going to be a big point of friction once you start moving up.

And if you are an AE, don't get too complacent. Like things can change even when you move from SMB to mid-market. It's a huge change. And so like you need to have a combination of both, but look at the proxies, look internally, look to see like what's worth spending your time on, but hone the skill at all times. So agreed. I think this was killer, man. I don't have any famous last words, but No, man. I think you covered it well. This this was the duo everyone was waiting for. I think it was a good one.

This was killer. And uh just for context, I know I'm just like stealing your your thunder here, but Connor is absolutely crushing it inside the high levels community. So definitely check out the uh the cold call and the cold email engine communities too if you're looking for some coaching on both of them. Looking forward to see you guys in there. All right, guys. [Music]
