# This Is Why You're Struggling as an SDR

**Expert:** Connor Murray

**Rank:** 4

**Metadata Score:** 235

**Published:** 2026-04-27

**Duration:** 00:33:42

**Views:** 2,819

**Likes:** 111

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ggfjyPNr25U

---

# Transcript

I think we can all agree that most SDR advice sounds good in theory in training when you're learning it but falls apart pretty quickly the second you try and start implementing it and if you're a rep right now you're probably being told that more calls more emails more activity is the answer when in reality what you're missing is a repeatable process that you're comfortable with so you know what you're doing every day that gives you structure that's something you can measure against and improve.

So that's what we want to cover in this video no theory today we want to break down the SDR playbook we see working what we see top reps doing and what we'd be focusing on if we were in your shoes. So Eric I'm going to turn it to you because a lot of SDRs feel overwhelmed and I think they're pretty surprised because I know I felt this way when I was new when starting out I'd done the training I'd taken Sandler sales training before I started I'd read a bunch of books you get a month of training at least in my case I did you get PowerPoint slides battle card decks all this collateral to work with and it sounds great but then day one actually in seat I'm like how do we actually put this all together it's taken me 20 minutes to type emails and actually take all this information overload and apply it and I just felt lost and I know a lot of SDRs feel that way just from the ones we work with so and from your perspective why is the SDR role so challenging and so overwhelming for people when they first get started?

Yeah I think the the biggest thing you hit on is information overload to say it simply like it's really really tempting and honestly it's I know it's why we all started our different social media platforms because yeah you just get to this point where there's you're just taking in from your manager from other peers on your team from other books that you've read and you haven't even made a cold call and they're telling you hey read you know win friends how to win friends and influence people like that's going to help you on the phone and so you know you feel like you're making a lot of progress you're you're six weeks into the role you're finally like hitting the phones off of your ramp you know you're like 50 calls a day or whatever it may be and nothing's connecting because you've optimized kind of for the wrong things I think part of that is like to be clear that that's going to be even if I told you exactly what to do there's trial and error there's a lot of unknowns there's a lot of uncertainties especially you know in my case coming from an engineering career before going into sales engineering my job was pretty laid out of exactly what I had to do and how to do it sales is kind of that way at the SDR level in the sense that the tools are there but we're talking about real time short burst of communications with humans where you have to get them to basically do what you want within reason obviously right like that's it's not like a loaded manipulative statement but in in short I think it's like the people that win long term definitely are the ones who overload with information they're watching this video they're reading books they're watching your stuff they're in higher levels wherever it may be they're taking in tons of different content but they learn very quickly to filter that out and the last thing I'd say I'm happy to dive into it more is I think one thing I got really lucky with working at a smaller company is I very quickly like in a matter of weeks not even months figured out who the genuine top performers were and I think having been a previous engineer it wasn't my first job out of school I just realized like you kind of understand when you're in a company long enough 10 to 20% of people are really the heavy hitters and everyone else all respect it doesn't mean they're like useless but 10 to 20% of people are really really moving the needle in a company of any significant size so I just latched on to an individual top performer and I think that's something that a lot of people don't do they think oh nothing against Chris Chris has been here for 18 months he's got to know something I don't and if Chris is number one on the leaderboard absolutely but if Chris has been struggling and hasn't hit quota for nine months I'm probably going to try and find Connor who's been number one on the leaderboard even if it's just 12 months as opposed to Chris's 18 so a lot I could break down but that's hopefully a good starting No that's well said and the only thing I'd add from my perspective is where enablement just comes so short is enablement's very good at giving you the decks the battle cards talk tracks the information but what's missing and when I was an SDR manager I focused on this heavily and was a big reason my teams ramped so quickly and I didn't think I was doing anything special but I was like I have email templates for example I know work I have sent tens of thousands of these rather than making my reps use the PowerPoint and sales enablement collateral to come up with email templates let me just spell it out for him here's the template you should use here's why it's structured this way here's the times of days you should send emails times of days you should make cold calls just a recommendation but more spelling it out how to actually take the information and apply it I think that's where a lot of enablement comes up short and why a lot of SDRs feel so lost even though they have all the information and sales orgs are just confused by it that's usually the missing link is you have to give them a process to get started with so that was big for me in terms of when things started to turn around we'll get into what that process looked like but Chris I'm curious from your perspective what was it for you when you were a new SDR you felt overwhelmed and you started to you know improve and feel like you had the the hang of things what were some of those things you noticed yourself doing that made you feel that way and go from like you know feeling hectic on a day to day to like I actually know what I'm doing here?

Yeah I think the biggest thing kind of what both of you actually said was realizing that sales enablement isn't necessarily going to get you there and I think sometimes after working with so many SDRs I think it's just a critical thinking process like you know are these people who are teaching you how to do these things that you're following advice from have they actually sold before and if they have okay great but have they sold at that company before right cuz like every single playbook is different when it comes to success like what works at one company might not work at a different company so my biggest realization was basically okay I've been following the enablement playbook for the last few weeks well once I realized that really wasn't cutting it and you know the top performers were doing things that were materially different from what we were being taught exactly what Eric is saying and that's kind of what we teach all of our students as well is let's look at the people who are actually crushing it right like why are these people doing so much better and getting outsized rewards in relation to the rest of the team yep and it was really hard to figure that out actually like that's so easy to say and it's so vanilla like go look at I mean it's not vanilla cuz actually a lot of people don't do it but one thing is telling somebody to go and just do what the top performers are doing another thing is actually getting that out of them cuz the top performer isn't going to openly share yeah here's everything that I'm doing to be better than all of you suckers like here you go like that's just not going to happen so I just started trying to educate myself on the CRM that I'm using you know the past results like I actually had to Frankenstein together a lot of stuff so the biggest turning point for me was teaching myself Salesforce which was a CRM that I was using when I was an SDR teaching myself outreach and figuring out like I just spent an entire day like an entire weekend actually I found the top performers like Eric was saying I took them one by one I just went okay I'm just going to go one call at a time for the past 100 cold calls or like go to the opportunities list and look at not just the closed one or the opportunities that were created when you're an SDR that's probably a more important metric I would just go opportunity by opportunity you know how are these opportunities being created and I would just start with is there a specific lead list is there a specific trigger that these SDRs are using like and just go from A to Z okay cool we figured out what the lead list is what's the messaging is there a specific sequence most of the time that sequencing isn't public now you got to Frankenstein all together so I think the biggest turning point for me and what we teach a lot of our SDRs is really emulation is key but also educating yourself on the tools that you have because you're not going to be able to go out and just ask everybody and expect them to just deliver the silver bullet to you on a platter you have to go out there and honestly once you learn that skill set you'll come to find that staying on top of things it actually made my role a lot easier as an SDR ongoing I just knew like I could look at this person I could look at this person I constantly had a pulse on what's working where like is there a specific lead list that's pretty hot that I can start tapping into even before the SDRs that were doing really good even realized it I would constantly be looking at the opportunities constantly be looking at what's working and that's just a much better sure you can layer on additional things and you can get like crazy but I just don't think when you first start I think it's more about creating a baseline for yourself and getting to a point where you're hitting your number before you start reinventing the wheel and exactly I think the tech stack thing is a really important point that's a question I know I get asked a lot I'm sure you guys do too of like what should I do in my first 30 days lots of things but one of the main things I think you should spend free time on is getting comfortable with your tech stack your CRM your SCP platform dialers whatever you got I remember when I was new even I'd only use Gmail my entire life and even Outlook was like where all the buttons everything just feels harder and that's part of why it feels overwhelming when you're started because things that are going to become second nature to you just require more mental energy and you're spending more time on that cuz you don't understand it yet rather than just actually executing other thing that was really important to me you talked about recognizing patterns that was huge for me I call it coiling the spring I basically looked at repeatable things I was doing on a daily basis like industries I was targeting job titles and would make lists in advance so that I wasn't having to figure out what to do each day I was like let me get all my top job titles on a list top industries again that goes to using your tech stack too so I had all this stuff I was normally pulling like 20 minutes before a call block like who am I going to call I had this stuff laid out for myself for months but you need to know how how to use your tech stack to do that.

Um I guess that's a good transition to you, Eric. We get asked a lot about the core skill set of the SDR from a tactical standpoint. I mean, I think we can all agree for the most part it's cold calls, emails, LinkedIn. There's other stuff, but for the most part that's what you're going to be doing and need to improve your proficiency in. How do you guide reps when they're asking things like how should I be splitting my time amongst these three things? Which is one more effective than the other? Um curious what guidance you give on that.

Yeah, I mean the short answer and I'm going to break it down. It's not this simple as test. For me, I found that my best conversion uh was always through email over the other methods. I had better luck with pure outbound on cold calling. And LinkedIn I've had intermittent success, but honestly it was the email and cold calls that worked best for me. So as one example of many like one of the things that I do uh that I really optimize that no one at my company or maybe one other person had when I came in as an SDR is I had all of my inbound lead types organized by the actual lead type.

I had custom sequences that maybe just changed a sentence or two based on that lead type, but my broader point being is every single morning I came in, I would action all of the inbound leads from the night before even if it was three to five of them. Priority number one, get an email out in the morning and try and call them in the afternoon. And that worked really well for me. But I found that out by experimenting, by trying different times, uh throwing in LinkedIn messaging, you name it. Then on the outbound side, um I would say, you know, I I used emails as a way to just get on the radar and usually if they picked up the call was the way that I was like, "Hey, emailed you earlier, you know, we we can get into scripts and all that if we need to." But my point being is test.

For me it was every single morning I came in, I would come in usually an hour back in the days where we actually went to the office. I would come in at 8:00 a.m. Between 8:00 and 9:00 I'm getting all of the inbound leads organized, curated, ready to go, fire them off right away. Yeah. Then from there probably 9:00 to 10:00-ish, maybe 9:00 to 10:30, anyone that's actively in a sequence maybe a day two, day three sequence, I'm going to send out, you know, day two custom email, uh maybe a call in the morning.

I'll mix it up if they're the first call's always in the afternoon cuz I want that email to hit first. I'm sorry if I'm getting deep in the sauce. But that's that's generally how I would structure my day. So more or less by the time 11:00 hits, maybe I've got a couple meetings between 11:00 and, you know, 2:00 somewhere in there. And then in the afternoon I'm finishing that block with some of the pure outbound leads where I maybe sent an email in the morning like I mentioned. I'm making sure all of my dials happen in the afternoon at the latest by like 3:00 to 4:00 p.m.

Sometimes I'll try for like executive personas like 4:30 to 5:30 range, maybe even call a little bit after hours so they think their kids in trouble or in detention or something, you know? And then and honestly that that's worked sometimes, but I I can break it down more, but in general test. And by testing, by using top performer stuff, by finding things that you commit to using for more than three days and then you don't get a response and feel like you got to change it. I pick something that over time I whittled down.

I would try things about a week or two at a time. And then that was more or less the optimal process. I can break it down further but Yeah, no that appreciate the detail. I mean, I can just share from my perspective for me um when I started for the first six months, I basically spent 100% of my time cold calling. I almost never emailed, but not it it wasn't because I didn't think it was effective. I just didn't know how to do it right. I would spend 20 minutes typing an email, sending it to a CFO thinking I wrote the world's best email and just not get a reply.

And I'm like, I could have just made 10 15 dials in that same time period. Email's a waste of time. Um cold call's the way to go. I do think I think most SDRs will be best served focusing on cold calling as your primary outbound method. I think it's the most important. It's the most AI proof, which we might get into here in a minute or a bit later. But you want to be spending the majority of your time cold calling. It's the highest quality form of outreach, but email's so scalable. So like you you should be doing both, but you should be spending the most of your time cold calling.

And then emails, the way I always did it and still do it to this day, honestly, is I have an email block in the morning. It's the first thing I do to get the blood flowing. I make sure the emails go out in between that 8:00 to 9:00 a.m. time frame. And then I usually have two cold call blocks, which we'll get into that in a minute, too. When it comes to LinkedIn, I know there's people that crush it on LinkedIn. I've always found it if you're an SDR and you're not booking three to five meetings per week via the phone and email combined, you should just focus on getting to that point before you start worrying about LinkedIn.

I've always taught reps that those are the two best channels. They're the most scalable, most effective. Treat LinkedIn as a cherry on top. Um that's kind of the way I view it. I All three can and should be used, but I think most time should be on cold calls. Emails are the most scalable and it's about getting the right message into the right person's hands at the right time. And then I treat LinkedIn as more of a long-term either building a presence in your space as a subject matter expert or just picking off a few extra meetings from DMs, but I wouldn't rely on it personally.

Um I guess Chris, let's go to you next. Talking about You were talking about earlier looking at some of the top performers and like what they were doing. Um and you you touched on it a little bit, but what are those common things, repeatable things you see in top 10% SDRs regardless of the company or industry they work at. Like what are those things you consistently see them doing that makes them top performers? Yeah, I think one is patterns that we talked about. Like they stay on top of that. So they don't stop.

Like after they figure out what's working, you know, they don't just stop there and they're like, "Cool, this is now what I'm going to do for the rest of the 18 months that I'm going to be an SDR." Um I think being consistent, um we talk a lot about like systematizing, but like what does that actually mean? I think what it means is you just prioritize what Eric was saying as well. How do you do that? Well, I for me it was just about intent. So like I would go for the warmest leads first, the warmest lead lists.

And when I was an SDR, we kind of had like some free reign for certain lead lists. So it was all about being fast. It was all about being on top of when is this in-person event happening? I realized very quickly from looking at all the data that in-person events and webinars were just incredible. Like they were just like and I was supporting enterprise and strategic accounts. And so it was a whole lot more beneficial and easier to book a meeting when they've had a conversation with like my counterpart or my counterpart or my account executive.

So from there, you would just reach out to them, you know, just use that as a trigger. I'm like, "Hey, you know, you were cuz they would only qualify as a lead if they actually spoke to somebody." And then the actual AE would put them in. But again, every single situation is different. So I think it just comes down to figuring out what's working at your specific company. Um like to your point, I think cold calling is a skill that is the most valuable, but I also think there's certain segments and verticals where that just like that's not as well perceived.

Like for instance, I think for both of us calling like very technical people in cloud infrastructure, they just hate being cold called. >> Yeah, I can give you another quick example, too, from a student in the community who reaches out to like doctors and and sells medtech. And he's described how like with email sometimes you you can just get these they don't answer cold calls. So you definitely it's not like you do one or the other. You need to do both. But you're right. Like there's some depending on your niche and your industry, there's some channels where one or the other might make more sense.

>> Yeah. I think it depends too on like your segment, um your product market fit. Like I see a lot of people sharing these magical scripts on LinkedIn, on the internet. And they work at these like crazy well-recognized logos where honestly like if you were a rock and you called them and you just told them you were from Google, that's probably enough to get a meeting on the books, right? But then when you're selling at a company that doesn't have that recognition, doesn't have that product market fit, how you approach that conversation, how your sequences look like, it's just night and day.

Yeah. So I think understanding that as well, um which this is very obvious in hindsight, but when you're first starting out and there's so much stuff online. I think all these SDRs that to improve really quickly, what's the first thing they do? Well, they go check out our stuff, they check out LinkedIn, and they find all these things, and then they're not working. What do they do? So I think just like applying some critical thinking and, you know, I think this goes for just about anything, but understanding the variables that you're working within.

Like how do they interact? How do they affect, you know, this script, this script here? It's all about being tactful with the things that you're doing. >> patterns, focusing on the low-hanging fruit. I I think the systematizing is another big one. Like the the reps I can tell you again just going off my experience, my first two quarters as an SDR, I hit my number both quarters, but it was an absolute grind. It's like I was working 50, 60 hours more a week, weekends, getting up early, like really stressing on a weekly basis like whether I was going to get to my number.

The second two quarters because I figured out how to systematize things. And essentially the best way I can put it is I woke up knowing what I was going to do each day rather than having to come up with what to do. Those next two quarters I ended up basically doubling my performance from the prior two, and it genuinely took like 1/5 the effort because I just had the process down. I systematized it, which I think is a good uh transition into Eric. You were going into it a little bit earlier, but in terms of a daily structure, daily workflow, how do you how do you think about coaching prospects on or excuse me, students on how they should go about prospecting each week and use some time allotments for those different buckets for like cold calls, emails, going after warm leads, inbound, stuff like that.

Yeah, I mean aside from the hourly schedule that I kind of mentioned earlier, I think it really does start with territory organization, which is a broad term, but in reality some of what we've all talked about here, which is it's not just, hey, I know that my warm leads are free demos. So, let me log in today, run a quick salesforce report on who started a free trial or free demo request or whatever it may be. It's actually like systematizing that and putting that first and foremost in place. And it doesn't stop there with just demo requests, with pricing requests, with free trials.

As we've mentioned, it gets down to not even just like webinars as a category, but what specific types of webinars are the most intent and highest likelihood to convert. I'm separating every single one of those because at least at my company every 3 to 6 months they would recycle more or less the same concept. And so, I'm catching people based on white paper downloads. Like a generic market comparison of like the database I sold versus 10 competitors is way less likely to convert than a my database versus Oracle.

Like a very focused I knew from a lot of the training, a lot of people that I spoke with, a lot of people considered us over Oracle at the time because it was such a significant cost savings. And if they weren't doing anything like crazy or Oracle specific, there's no reason they should be paying that much at the time. At least that's the battle card. Not here to [ __ ] on Oracle, [laughter] right? But my point being is I I had let's forget about from 8:00 to 9:00 I did this, from 9:00 to 10:30 I did this.

First and foremost, over the course of 2 to 3 months in addition to showing up, making my calls, making my emails, having very structured tests, I also got way more granular than the average rep in terms of how I not only segregated all of the different lead types, but also built automations and simple reporting to ensure I captured that literally every day. Like that was aside from my calendar, which is like what meetings do I have coming up today? When I logged in and after I checked my calendar, the next thing I'm going to is salesforce and literally just click export into outreach, click down here, export these white paper ones into my white paper sequence, go down the list to the next one.

Oh, looks like we had three webinar sign-ups, going to put them in this exact sequence. And that I would say is foundational just to not beat a dead horse and talk about things like that. >> Yeah. And to build on that, cuz everything you just said is exactly the process I went through and just rigorously identifying these triggers, lead types, coming up with slightly different whether it's scripts, templates that are adjusted to be targeted for those. Then what you can do tactically on a week-by-week basis.

For those of you that are fans of the channel, you've probably heard me talk about the ABAB cadence. So, what I tell SDRs and what I think is the best way to go about it is you want to have two buckets each week. You want to have a few strategic accounts you're working on where you're not just spraying and praying. You have a few selected individuals, you have a more clear hypothesis, and you're actively trying to break into that account at a more strategic level. Otherwise, you can pick two persona groups.

Two's not a hard number, but to keep it easy, A and B, from these lead lists that you were just talking about where it could be I don't know. Yeah, like people who own Oracle database or something else and you know everyone on that list meets that trigger criteria. You basically email them one day and then you call them the next day. So, on Monday you're emailing that list, Tuesday you're calling them, Wednesday your follow-up email one, Thursday calling them again. And you do that you like on Tuesday you pick a different list and you do the same thing.

That's your email day, call them Wednesday. So, you basically look at you have two groups and lead lists every week. And it that's what helps you. You can have a hundred or more of those people, have one talk track that meets all the criteria you put them on that list for. And that's how you can be quality, high volume at scale and stay on top of it in in an easy way. Because a lot of companies make the mistake, too. I won't go too in-depth on this, but they give their SDRs these cadences that are way too complex.

They stretch like 30 days, voicemails, LinkedIn connections. I just like call, email, call, email. It's easy to stay on top of and you can build on it from there. Um Chris, I think one thing a lot of people watching are probably thinking about is let's say you are doing that, you're implementing all of this. I know we've all been through it in terms of pushing through those time periods where nothing seems to be going your way or you're facing a ton of rejection or you're putting in the work and you're just not getting the results you're expecting.

How do you coach people and maybe how have you in the past thought about weathering those time periods and and pushing through? Yeah, this going to sound super zen, but I always tell people to look at it as personal development disguise. So, and not to get zen, but I truly believe it's one of those skill sets where like why is it uncomfortable? Because you're just not used to getting on the phone. You're not used to being told hey, [ __ ] off. I don't want to talk to you. Um so, I always just tell people like think about the skill set they were developing by going through this.

And also, this doesn't last forever, right? Like as an SDR you eat a lot of [ __ ] compared to like when you get promoted. You definitely get into harder situations, you get more responsibility. Now you're responsible for more of the the deal cycles when you become an account executive, but I think as an SDR you're kind of under recognized. Like, you know, nobody really cares deeply about the work that you do, the deals that get closed, they all go to the AE. Yeah. In some rare occasions occasions that's not always the case, but I just like to tell people to not to sound vanilla, but keep going.

Understand that on the other side of this you're going to have a skill set that was going to separate you from just about anybody else. Even if you decide I don't want to do tech sales, I don't want to be an SDR, I don't want to keep selling, there's never been anybody in the history of anything that has ever said, oh, your experience in sales sucks. Like that's a terrible background. You're not ready for this. So, no matter what, if you truly give it a shot, and I think most people if they actually commit to it, which I think is the problem, is most people they try, they jump on a cold call, or you know, they send out their first few emails and they get rejected and they're like this is too hard.

I wasn't fit for this job. For the people that actually stick with it and get through the BS, they're like, wow, like this is pretty badass. Once you get to their side, now it's like you almost couldn't imagine doing anything apart from this. And that's also why we get paid so much as software sales reps, right? Not only are we selling something that is complicated, that is harder for the average person to just go into, but I think a lot of it is dealing with that rejection. >> Yeah. That was the exact point I was actually going to add on is that that's why I always tell reps that's why we get paid a lot.

That's why in an entry-level position you can make over six figures and within 1 year most AE promotions you're now in the mid six figures. Take any other like finance jobs, consulting, unless you're starting in like investment banking, for the most part that's not a thing. Like you can't progress from a financial standpoint that quickly. That's because it's hard. Not a lot of people are willing to do it. Um I also just talked to people about the concept of ebbs and flows, too. Like you can be doing the right things, do it like following the right process, but any SDR who's been in the job even a relatively meaningful amount of time knows that there are just weeks that are freezing cold and then weeks that are just like one account everyone there wants to meet with you.

You book seven meetings in one day and you're like, what? It's never going to come linearly. Like you're not going to book your target three meetings per week every week. You're going to get six one week, then one, then five, then two. It's going to go back and forth. So, I kind of just talk about that concept of ebbs and flows. I think a lot of reps need to hear it cuz all it takes is like a week of no results and a lot of them end up going into a funk and it's hard to claw out of it. Yeah, I think it's maturity, too.

Like you know, after going through that stuff and even if I I see a lot of people especially in sales, I mean we're kind of core examples of that. Like they want to do something entrepreneurial. Um I think that's one of the most common traits. Even if you don't want to do something entrepreneurial, dealing with the ups and downs is like you don't understand what you're actually gaining by going through this BS, right? Like I I don't think there is a more uncomfortable. I mean there are definitely like more physical jobs that are harder, but from a mental standpoint, I don't think there is anything really that's as uncomfortable as calling people out of the blue and trying to convince them to like either jump on some follow-up meeting or to sell them something.

It is a very very uncomfortable situation, but once you get the hang of it or even just emails as well. Like I know emails are easier than cold calls, but there truly is something on the other side of it if you stick with it, if you just persist. And everything else from there is going to feel really really easy once you get past that. I mean, that's the hardest part most of you will go through in your career is starting as an SDR and and learning how to cold call and face intense rejection. I mean, you don't really end up facing it at that level at most parts of your progression into the AE role.

So, push through. Um Eric, want to turn it to you to bring us home here. Topic causes a lot There's a lot of AI anxiety out there. How is that going to impact the SDR role either for those that are currently SDRs or those who are maybe watching this thinking about becoming one, but worried whether there's going to be opportunity or something's going to happen to their job. I know we've talked about this at length this weekend, too, but high level from your perspective, how is AI going to reshape the SDR job?

Is it going to eliminate jobs? Is it going to help people be more productive? Somewhere in the middle? What's going to happen? Yeah, I think it's somewhere in the middle. I mean, I'd be naive to say it's not going to impact how teams approach head count and things of that nature, but we're still seeing like the biggest companies at or above their current level that they were even 2 3 years ago. There are a lot of reasons for that. I think what's hard to see on the outside looking in is even if like 2 years ago, you know, venture funding dried up.

You had a bunch of startups that were hiring in '21 and '22 that all of a sudden were going bankrupt, closing, getting acquired for pennies on the dollar. And everyone can see that and think, oh, tech companies are are in layoffs, all that. Well, the meantime is the major players are consolidating, they're acquiring those companies, and they're doubling down on sales development to try and capture the market share while all these companies are failing. So, there's this constant ebb and flow that maybe is a little bit independent of AI.

I would say one thing I'm seeing especially we have so many students now at AI unicorns, they're really killing it, is there's not much there's not more expected in the sense that like, "Hey, we are hiring you instead of hiring four people." Like, they're not saying it that explicitly, but AI I think two things. One, obviously lets you get way more done in terms of your call notes are now automatically logged in Salesforce. You don't have to manually construct a follow-up email, you know, it gets you 80 to 90% of the way there.

So, one, if you're not doing that already, you absolutely need to learn how to do that, whether that's with tools your company has or even just, you know, ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude, whatever it may be. On the other side, I think there's also opportunity. I mean, we're seeing some of the SDRs we have at both, you know, unicorn AI startups and the best companies in the world that are leveraging this. Like, we had someone we spoke to recently hit 249% of their number, and they showed us under the covers what they're doing in Gemini and how many custom gems and GPTs they have, and it's like, "Okay, this makes sense now." So, I think there's unbelievable opportunity if you're on the forefront.

Don't let anyone fool you, and don't take just because, you know, I'm not picking on ZoomInfo, but ZoomInfo sprinkled in some AI on their tool, that's not where I'm focusing, if I'm being honest with you. I would still focus on kind of your open LLMs, your ChatGPTs, your Claude, your Geminis, assuming you're comfortable your company is comfortable with you putting that information there, and maybe has an enterprise plan. That's where I see the best reps performing and creates tons of opportunity, and if you're savvy with that stuff, I would not worry about a job at all.

I I think if anything, you see maybe 10 to 20% smaller teams 5 to 10 years from now, but the manual process of using all the tools available to you to actually reach out to a human via email, via call, via LinkedIn. There's such a premium on that, and I I will say, sorry if I'm rambling here, last thing, it's like, there's been hundreds of companies we've filled out demos for the last 3 to 4 years, 5% of them call me, and those are the ones that are actually getting meetings in the first place, because the other ones I'm like, I fill it out, they send me an email 2 days later, and I'm like, "Ah, I already forgot why I filled that out." The ones that cold call me within 24 hours, they're getting the meetings and actually progressing in the deal.

So, well said. I I'm very much an opportunist when it comes to this stuff. It's going to be the people who use AI to become more efficient and accelerate workflows. Like, even what you were talking about with building out the lead list and creating the templates and scripts. I used to with that coil the spring process I mentioned, I used to have to work weekends to do that because I had to individually type out all those scripts. Instead of now, you can just create a framework, a GPT, or a project, and say, "Hey, now I want this for a finance persona and retail.

Now, finance and life science. Now, finance and manufacturing." And it will spit it out for you. So, yeah, we we go in a lot more in-depth on that in some other conversations, but I very much think we'll look back 5, 10 years from now and laugh at being nervous or skeptical about AI, because I think most of us can already, especially us, where it's like, we can just look at some of the things we used to have to do manually, where it's like, I don't even know if I could do this job anymore without like [laughter] ChatGPT.

So, thanks, guys. And if any of you watching want more hands-on guidance, we have SDR Accelerator. We're working with top reps. We've helped break both break in, but then also guiding them and training them once they're in seat, as well as some of the skill accelerators like Cold Call Mastery, Cold Email Engine. Those are the ones I run. I run the weekly live calls to help implement some of the stuff we were talking about today. But, Eric, Chris, anything you guys want to leave off on with the audience?

No, I think this was killer. Um just to echo off of everything I And just to touch on the AI aspect, actually. There's been a ton of AI tools. I actually think like a year ago, there was a bunch of people that like there was these like AI SDR bots that were coming out. Um and this is something that comes up a lot inside the community, but I think if you consistently stay up to trend with what's working, if you listen to channels like this, you will always have a peak advantage of what's working, what should I stay up to speed with, and, you know, you'll continue to crush, and before you know it, you'll be an AE.

>> Yeah. Well said. Well, thank you, gentlemen. This was value bill. Hope you all got value. We'll see you guys on the next one.
