# How Top SDRs & BDRs Cold Call (Exact Scripts & Structure)

**Expert:** Connor Murray

**Rank:** 7

**Metadata Score:** 224

**Published:** 2026-03-09

**Duration:** 00:11:54

**Views:** 3,561

**Likes:** 143

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YN--PXvmajM

---

# Transcript

So let's start with a visual of the value statement framework which is designed to help you maintain control and know what to do at every layer of the cold call and be prepared for every possible outcome. So the goal is to limit variance. Start with an implied formality or what I call an assumptive formality at the opener so that we can then get right into delivering our 30-se secondond value statement. Approximately 30 seconds is what I prefer where you answer who you are, why you're reaching out to them, which is what priorities and challenges you solve and how you solve them.

And then what you're looking to do, which is not to have a full 10-minute discussion right now, but set up time to meet later this week. Once you physically deliver that, there are now only three possible outcomes. They could, in a best case, find value in what you said, be genuinely busy, and say, "Yeah, sure. I'm free Friday afternoon. Feel free to send over an invite." In which case, book the meeting. On the opposite end, they could give you a hard no, which includes being hung up on, or they say, "Take me off your list.

See you. Click." In which case, you make your next dial. There's nothing you can do. So, once you deliver this, there are two of the three outcomes are very self-explanatory. You barely need to prepare for them. Otherwise, the only possible other outcome is some form of objection or clarifying questions. So, we want to be prepared with flash cards put to memory for the best responses to we're already a blank customer. or I'm not the right person. So, what exactly do you all do? And at least we're prepared to double down and sell the time, sell the meeting.

But the goal here is to limit variance, not start with any of this ridiculous, hey, you're going to hate me. This is a cold call. Do you have 27 seconds to tell me why I'm calling? And then you can hang up in my face if it's not relevant where you just totally devalue yourself and create the opening for variance for them to pull you away from the goal at hand setting a meeting. So let's now get into some actual scripts that help you do this in practice. So here's a basic example that will give you control over the cold call.

So it starts in this case I'm calling a finance persona in retail with the assumptive formality. So hey Jim, this is Conor Murray calling from Capital Site. How you doing? Uh good. How are you? Good. Yeah, I'm just reaching out because I'm part of the financial applications team here that works with retail orgs. So, anything related to automated forecasting, same store sales planning, month-end close, things like that. And usually, we're working with teams to consolidate data across stores and channels, and then automate reporting and manual parts of the close process.

So, I know that's high level, but I'd be your point of contact here for any priorities you may have in these areas going forward, resources you may need, anything like that. And I know I kind of got you out of the blue here, too. So, I was actually more looking to set some time later this week just to introduce you to my team and get on the same page moving forward. Do you have availability on Thursday or Friday this week? So, real quick breakdown and then I'm going to show you multiple adaptations to uplevel this framework, but it starts with that assumptive formality, which can be any phrase or word you prefer.

The key is that downward inflection where you're just signaling to them, hey, this is an implied formality. just give me a formality back so that you have something to say next and you're going to go right into it. You're not having this back and forth in the beginning where you're creating opportunities for variance. And then you can see in the three paragraphs I answered first who I am high level part of the financial applications team, retail orgs, why I'm reaching out more specifically, and then what I want.

For most of you, this is going to help you feel very confident on cold calls because now you know when the prospect says hello, you're going to get a formality to the best of your ability. And then you know what you're going to say for the next 30 seconds. And I kind of highlighted some of the areas you can play with depending on the persona in the industry. But this is meant to be a repeatable framework that gives you control. It does not give the prospect time to give you defensive tones or think, "How'd you get my number?

Where are you calling from? What is this regarding? How long is this going to take? You are setting the tone and front-loading the value. Now, let's get into adaptation number one where you don't have to go straight for the meeting. You can actually introduce a pause and kind of just position yourself as a resource. So, in this one, hey Sarah, this is Connor Murray calling from Helix Point. How you doing? Good. Yeah, I'm just reaching out because I'm part of the data security and risk group here that works with life science teams mainly in areas around data access, visibility, and compliance.

And more specifically, we work with it to centralize activity across their cloud cloud platforms and then use automation to help surface risks and reduce exposure. So, I know that's pretty high level, but I'd be a point of contact here for any initiatives you might have in these areas going forward, resources you may need, anything like that. I just wanted to reach out and make sure I properly introduce myself because it hadn't looked like we'd connected before. And then you pause and get their feedback to that.

If it's positive or even if they ask a question like so when you say data security and compliance, do you help with this? If you're comfortable going back and forth, you can you can do a little qualification, but then you have that bullet in the chamber where you can say, "And by the way, this is actually something we could review. I was actually more looking to set up some time later this week and we can discuss this. I can be prepared in more detail. How's your calendar look on Thursday or Friday morning?" So, this feels a lot more comfortable for a lot of people because it allows you to shorten the value statement, too, because you don't have all that extra to get out booking for the meeting.

I just think the first variation is good for new SDRs, and this is good for reps that know how to have some back and forth with prospects. Here's the next adaptation where you finish with what I call a validation check instead. So, say same thing. Hey Jim, this is Conor Mary calling from XYZ company. How you doing? Good. Yeah, I'm just reaching out because I'm part of the fleet operations team here that mainly supports areas around fleet visibility, job site safety, equipment utilization, and we're usually working with ops teams looking to connect their vehicle data, cameras, sensors, all in one spot so they can make a lot more efficient decisions across job sites.

And there's more we do on top of that, but I'd be a point of contact here for any priorities you might have in these areas going forward. And I just wanted to reach out and make sure I properly introduce myself. But yeah, curious if any of that resonates and just to understand what priorities your team is focused on right now. So this is good for a lot of you who might have work at organizations that don't want you going for the meeting straight away and want you to do some qualification and open up the door.

Here's how you can take that same framework who you are, why you're reaching out, what you want, but then high level. Yeah, curious if any of that resonates and just to understand what priorities your team is focused on right now. The goal is to come across confident, concise, like you've been here and done this before. That you name priorities and outcomes that intrigue this person so that they want to engage with you from here. So you can build credibility and set the meeting. Now let's get on to adaptation number three where you finish with a more direct current state question.

So hey Jim, this is Conor Murray calling from XYZ company. How you doing? Good. Yeah, I'm just reaching out. I'm part of the workforce applications team here that works on priorities mainly around talent planning and workforce scheduling usually by working with HR teams to centralize workforce data and then use AI to produce insights and help improve staffing efficiency. So, I know that's high level, but I'd be your point of contact here for any priorities you may have in these areas going forward.

And I just wanted to reach out and introduce myself, but yeah, do you have any tools in place today that help you forecast staffing needs or figure out where you might be over underresourced? So, same framework, but instead I more directly ask a question about their current state. And keep in mind, you can use this framework, but adapt it to your style. I talk a little fast for some of you. You might cut out some of the language or only name two or three priorities or two priorities instead of three.

Or you might shorten this phrase about being their point of contact. What's important is that in about 30 seconds, you deliver at least who you are, why you're reaching out, position yourself as a resource in key business areas that they care about. Now, moving along here to adaptation number four, where you finish with a priority alignment question. So, hey Jim, this is Conor Murray call from XYZ company. How you doing? Good. Yeah, I'm just reaching out. I'm part of the marketing automation team here that works on priorities mainly around campaign orchestration and lead nurturing.

usually by working with marketing teams to centralize campaign data and then use automation and AI to produce insights and help improve conversion rates and pipeline attribution. So, I know that's high level, but I'd be your point of contact here for any priorities you may have in these areas going forward. And I just wanted to reach out and make sure I properly introduce myself. But yeah, does your team have any initiatives around measuring campaign performance or automating manual marketing workflows?

This is really good for specific job titles or specific industries where you know where you're trying to go with this. Maybe you saw something specific about their company, what initiatives they have or on their LinkedIn what this person's focused on and you want to use this question to guide them in the direction you think is going to lead to the most value and ultimately to a meeting. So again, it's the same framework just finishing with a different style of question. Now, so the key rules that make every one of these adaptations in the whole framework work, no matter how you splice it, is assumptive tonality.

I'm speaking like I belong in the room and I am expecting this meeting to happen. Not asking their permission. I'm not speaking like I'm stepping on toes or walking on glass. I am saying I am valuable to you. This meeting should be happening and I'm just trying to figure out what date and time works best. In conjunction with that, using assumptive language. This is key. Saying, "Yeah, I'm looking to set up some time." Or, "Yeah, let's set up some time." Or, "Yeah, so what I'm looking to do is set up some time." Not language like, "Yeah, so if you're interested, I I'd love to set up a quick time to chat if possible next week." When you throw those little caveats on there, it's subconscious, but it makes it it opens the door wide open for the prospect to say, "Ah, you know what?

Just send me an email." And then what I'm focusing on is selling the meeting, not the product. Your job is not to sell your entire solution on a cold call. Your job is to give off just enough value, come across as credible, like a valuable resource to them going forward where it is worth it in their mind to spend 15 to 30 minutes building that relationship with you and learning more about what you can potentially do to help them either now or down the line. And the whole framework is designed again to give you control of the call so that you're not wondering how are they going to respond to my permission-based opener or that first qualifying question where it goes off script and it's hard to reel it back in.

It's meant to be repeatable at scale. If you go back and look at those examples, you could ideally say that same thing to a 100 finance personas in retail and not have to think between every dial. you can just call call call because you've frontloaded the framework and you've made it targeted to that title in that industry and then it's meant to give you more quality shots on net and what I mean by shots on net is chances to book the meeting. So, we're going for the meeting ear sooner rather than later.

And then what you should check out next, I will link to the video is my objection handling framework because yes, oftentimes people do not take you up on your meeting right away even if they're intrigued by what you said. They give you some sort of objection or clarifying question. And the objection handling framework is designed to build on this and also give you more quality shots on net. So, I hope this helped. I hope this gave you some ideas. If you want more hands-on guidance and want to join a community with literally hundreds of reps working together every week to implement this framework, you can check out the link in the description to Cold Call mastery.

I lead the live calls there every single week. So, if you want to work with me, check that out. Hope to see you in there and hope you got value out of this video and I will see you in the next one.
