# Cold Emailing That Actually Works in 2025: Frameworks, Follow-Ups, & Personalization

**Expert:** Connor Murray

**Rank:** 9

**Metadata Score:** 203

**Published:** 2025-08-18

**Duration:** 00:33:24

**Views:** 2,971

**Likes:** 125

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DJ-3LQfRXQM

---

# Transcript

Eric, how you doing, man? Good, man. Always great to be here. Agreed. Guys, wanted to get Eric back on to do a deep dive into cold emailing. He's someone whose perspective I know you all will appreciate. He started as an SDR, worked his way to enterprise AE. I know he's a familiar face and a friend of the channel. He's been both a customer and actually implemented this stuff, trained hundreds of STRs, works with founders implementing these types of frameworks. So, Eric, I'll pass it over to you to set the stage for uh what we're going to cover today.

Yeah, thanks. And forewarning to everyone, this is going to be a really deep dive episode on cold emailing. Just for reference, the reason we wanted to do this deep dive is as one example of many I at this point in my career, not only have I coached tons of people and I'm not saying that to think, you know, you should blindly trust me, I've been an engineer. I was an engineer well before my career as a direct sales rep. Um, now run our own company online as well. And I've been a customer and also a frontline rep sending these emails.

Most recently, we've worked with a lot of founders in the AI agent space. Um, a lot of AI companies, as you know, are popping up. We're dealing with some that are trying to raise funds. Maybe they're at Y Combinator. We worked with one founder in particular who sent over a thousand messages via Clay using automation and AI, and we'll get to when and when not to use that. But we just looked at it and we're like, "Hey man, like we want to get there. We want to get to the point where we can reach out and have some really effective email at scale, but if we don't have a core quality message, we're not going to get anywhere." And fast forward, long story short, we revised his email.

We had a 59% open rate and a 21% meeting rate. Like that's better than I've ever done in my own career. Not even just to the responses, like a total meeting rate, which is outrageously good. Yeah. And just for for one other data point as well, again, just we're we're going to kind of reverse engineer how we got there because this is something that I think is missed even when I started as a rep, the training I got, there's so many things that people just focus on what you're writing. And there's way more to it in my opinion.

But as an example, one of the people just for context that we even got on the meeting was a CEO of a company literally the week prior that had raised 7 million and had a tech crunch launch. So we're talking about someone who he literally responded. I normally don't respond to these, but this was a great message. Here's my calendarly like just like that. So again, I'm not going to sit here and tell you the magical message, but this is a culmination of years of trial and error and also I think years of seeing people make tons of mistakes and focus just about what does this message say, not the holistic picture of why we should create this message, how we even create an effective message, who it's for, all of those different things we'll get into.

We'll get right into it. I know I've seen a lot of different email templates, some good, some some bad, some very bad. I'm sure you've seen a lot as well. How what do you see or how do you view the current state of training when it comes to cold email and and and how the common typical rep or or founder sales leader is is training on cold emailing? Yeah, a few things that immediately come to mind are I I think again a lot of the emphasis is very deep on the how to structure a message but it's very surface level on everything else.

And what I mean as an example and the the biggest trend that I see whether I'm working with reps, whether I'm working with founders is you say things like who's your ICP? Who's your ideal customer profile? And that's like a 10-minute segment of training. And we're like, we sell to engineers who work on databases. Great. And then it's like, okay, then we spend four hours like researching like good emails. And that is one symptom of many, but it's like all of the attention is what is the structure of this email?

and oh ICP great or like what's it like if you're a director getting a cold email. We don't put any thought into what it's like as an indiv an individual especially the higher and higher up I go within an organization. Even now as a founder of this program on YouTube I wake up every single day to five to 10 different emails or whatever it might be from people trying to sell me video editing thumbnail services. And you may come to me with an incredible email, but don't even take into account that I've already woken up to 10 horrible, horrible emails.

And just the nature of receiving a cold email, my defenses are already up. So, there's many things I'll get into, but I think we're often so focused on how do we communicate the value of our product or you should know the problems you're solving. Like, if you know your ICP, you can know the typical types of problems that they they solve, right? And we do that. We do that one time and we don't really think about how to really really break that down into its smallest and most defined parts. So, I can elaborate.

I'm curious from your perspective training reps as well. But it that is often where I think the most people miss because you think you're getting really honed in on your messaging and and you're completely off base and you just sound like a copy paste of just a decent rep. You know, you're a little bit better than average, but you're still just a cold email. Yeah. One thing I want to dive deeper on there because I thought it was a great point about because I wake up to those emails too like thumbnails all this stuff and I think people whiteboard out these email templates and they like ICP these are the pain points therefore it's it's going to be a perfect match but they're not actually thinking about the state of these people when they're receiving these types of emails.

So like can you can you elaborate more on that? Like who are these people opening these these emails and why is that so important to think about? Yeah, I I mean it really comes down to your ICP. Like in terms of my case as a rep selling a highly technical product to highly technical engineers, they just naturally hate salespeople in general. And again, we're we're going to walk into the ways to phrase things, the ways to look nuanced. At no point do I want this to be like misleading or predatory or any of that like obviously, right?

But I will say when I had been an engineer for 3 years and then transition into sales, I saw a lot of the emails that our department was using and I was like I I had literally just been an engineer and I was like I would not respond to that. I I can see from the subject line that this is a sales email. And so, you know, when those defenses are up, how can we kind of massage things or messaging that, you know, in the context of a subject line, maybe one of the common triggers I reach out to a company for is because they're hiring five engineers that need to work on AWS.

So, instead of saying like, hey, how we solve X for AWS users, it's more on the nature of like um responding to your job opening, right? And that's that's immediately going to get a manager to be like, oh, interesting. Maybe this is an applicant. Let me open it and see what it's about. Yeah. And again, we've got a long way to go. It's not that simple. But even just thinking about like your subject, how am I going to respond to that when I've seen 10 like your thumbnails trash? Like I literally have people it's like you could have better thumbnails.

Like are you disappointed that your last video got like 700 views? Like you know if I see anything in that realm, I'm just immediately shut down. So yeah, that's what I've noticed is a lot of these people who think they're personalizing at scale, it's so obvious when it's like a templated version of personalization and it just has the opposite effect. Like now I know you're not personalizing and you just almost come off as manipulative and I'm like trash spam right away. So what I've noticed, you brought it up in the beginning as like a common mis problem with uh cold email training is that it's just jump straight to the template.

What I've noticed so far is like we haven't even gotten into that yet. What are are there any other areas you tell reps or people you're training on cold calling that they should focus on before even getting to the email structure and template itself? Yeah, I I think it's it's really it is the theory is simple, the execution is difficult and it's really more about especially in the world of your ICP, your ideal customer profile. It's diving extremely deep. And in the most recent example we kicked off this episode with with the founder, they're making an AI agent tool for people who run e-commerce marketplace.

And just for everyone's reference, like a marketplace specifically is referring to like an online store where I can list like my Jordans and resell them. Um those again the surface level email that this founder started with before we worked with them was talking about how they're building AI agents for e-commerce and marketplaces, right? But that that that's good. That's a little bit more specific. Maybe that catches my attention just a touch. But when we started diving deeper, it's like, okay, tell me more about the average marketplace.

And what we found, because they actually previously ran a marketplace business, is marketplaces depend on having high transactional volume. So sure, I can list my Jordans on here and I can sell shoes, right? But I make that sale and the marketplace owner gets like a dollar maybe. So they need to have a million shoes being sold on that platform like regularly, right? But this presents all sorts of challenges specifically to marketplace. So we actually realized let's double and triple down on marketplace.

And this is the thread I'm talking about with most common misconceptions and where I need people to focus is okay now we've identified maybe we start specifically with marketplace. Now we can really define some of the challenges. This person knows from their own experience that almost all like 80 to 90% of marketplace businesses even the biggest ones you see in the world right now are actually unprofitable. it it takes so much to run these things and to acquire new customers that they're very unprofitable and they also depend on having extremely high transaction volume.

So we found our founder had built an AI agent in their own business. This is what they're trying to then now sell as their new company to e-commerce companies. And instead of saying, "Hey, we're purpose-built for marketplaces and we can do X, Y, and Z." We were actually diving in and finding that one of the most common things they have is that they're dealing with 10,000 unique messages a day. So between a seller and a buyer, they have to monitor that. They need to monitor fraud. So if someone is listing a pair of shoes on and maybe it was a fake listing, they got some fake photos or whatever it might be, they need to detect that.

That is a team of five that is now watching that. And so we keep pulling this thread. I don't want to get, you know, cut me off if I'm too deep. But this is the level of detail you need to go when you're early on in your career or just writing messages for the first time. You have to sit down and really really pull this thread deeply. Yeah. Because then once you do this a couple times now it's much easier to say, okay, well, what if we were going to an e-commerce store that is selling snowboards, as an example, where are they sourcing those snowboards?

How many snowboards are they selling? Are they profitable? Right? You can kind of take that same logic and go down that thread and get hyper hyper specific because again, if you're listening to Connor's channel, I know you guys are already pretty good. Um, but it it really at this point, and I say this as someone who I have bought one thing from someone who cold emailed me. I've literally bought one thing and that was because they sent a hyper custom 8-minute Loom video, but they were really well researched on my channel what I was doing and they really stood out by doing that.

The answer here is not make an eight minute video, but they sat down and instead of blasting 10,000 messages, they took the time to go really deep on me and a few other creators that were high value targets. So, I'll pause because there's a lot more to this that I'm sure we'll get into. I preach a similar concept. Viewers on my channel probably hear me refer to it as coiling the spring, which is before just diving into loosely planned persona targeting and blasting out messages. Like really taking the time to think about the different buyers that that you deliver value for and segmenting them and like really going as deep as you did up front before you even send an email.

And then you can batch or bucket buyers that all fit that common criteria. And now you can start to scale and move a bit faster so that you're not having to like do two hours of research every single time. So let me let me give one more example too that's more mass appeal for like the average rep listening. Let's take a very common trigger and I'm just using this comp company as an example, right? I don't know Capital One announces they're migrating to AWS or they just signed a huge commitment and they're taking 80% of their deployment to the cloud.

The average rep is reaching out and saying like, "Hey, congrats on the move to AWS or like saw you just announced this huge move." And it's like, okay, I mean, yes, that is true. And maybe if you work at Amazon or like one of the major cloud players that's part of the AWS ecosystem, you're just going to get a meeting because they know they're going to have to talk to you. But let's say you're a startup. Let's say you're a rep at a startup that you're trying to kind of break into that account. Well, let's look more specifically.

If they're moving to AWS, what kinds of services are they using? What are they using today? And more specifically, let's say in this example, they're using Google Cloud. Google Cloud, just like AWS, has tons of different services within that. What are some of the most common migrations from Google to AWS and some of the biggest chunks that you can attack? So, I'm making this up. This is not going to be technically accurate, but I know like a big service in Google is Google BigQuery. So, now maybe we're getting really specific into Google BigQuery users because we want to sell our database on AWS and replace Google BigQuery, right?

What are some of the common challenges that Google BigQuery users have? Right? Because at the manager level, at the director level, they're just more or less like trying to set the road map and they're going to have their individual engineers actually run these POV and trials. So now I'm getting down specifically to the engineer level. What are some of the most common pains with BigQuery? And we know this move to AWS is going to be painful. They maybe don't even want to do it because they were just told, hey, you know, this is a huge executive decision.

We're going to move to AWS. But can we identify what some of the most challenging things about using Google BigQuery andor transitioning to AWS is going to present and how can we like show them that we understand that pain very specifically only for BigQuery users and then now move over and sorry one last thing I promise is once we have that defined now we can run this playbook on other big big query users at other companies but if we don't sit down and get this specific and go this deep down the rabbit hole I mean again Sure, you can scale out your outreach.

If you work at a big brand and you just get away with saying, "Hey, I work at AWS or I work at like one of the biggest players in the game," you're probably going to think you're better than you are. But that is by far, whether you're a rep, whether you're a founder, like we we get one or two, maybe three levels deep on ideal customer profile, and you think that's about it. And yeah, sure, you're you're thinking about it more than average, but when you go fourth, fifth, sixth level questions, really getting into the ICP, that is where I see the most magic happen.

where you can then again actually scale that out more than you think by slowing down for the first 50 to 60 messages within that group that you've really defined. So tell me if I'm understanding your strategy correctly. You hear a ton on ICPS and persona based targeting. Do you more view it as trigger based targeting? like what are some common misconceptions about the bland like I like you know you get on for sales enablement they'll teach an hour about ICP persona and then they'll just stop there and not really go deep into these triggers like is that how you view it like trigger-based targeting as opposed to just broad ICPs.

Yeah, it's a combination of both. I think on the triggering front, those are absolutely compelling events. Honestly, I will say what I have kind of found because I I've always loved selling for startups and mid-size companies. I've never uh from an engineering perspective, I worked at a marketleading company. From a sales perspective, I've always worked at small and mid-size companies. And I think one of the things about triggers, depending on what it is that I found, is often times if you're seeing that publicly, you can almost be too late, right?

Like if you're trying to break into a company and sell them something because they just announced an AWS migration, that's like a two-year conversation. in the example of like Capital One that's investing a quart of a billion dollars on their cloud infrastructure. That is a conversation that's been happening for 2 years and along the way that AWS team has been introducing them to complimentary services within that marketplace. Right? It's not impossible, but I find it's often too late and I think it just goes back to a combination of the two.

I've had scenarios where at the first company I sold for, we were a really great fit for e-commerce stores. And so triggers I'm looking for is more around like things that are repeatable like holiday seasons like Black Friday, right? Once we got through the holiday season, February, March, if those companies are ever going to make a change in their tech stack, it's that time because we actually worked with one e-commerce company that 80% of their revenue happened in literally the week of Black Friday.

80% of their annual revenue happened on Black Friday, that entire week. It was absolutely nuts. And so learning that and learning these different triggers like obviously things like hiring for engineers or you know maybe they had uh I don't know a budget cut or a cost optimization initiative. I'm thinking of other things that come to mind but my broader point being is yes there's a trigger there. Um but also within especially if you're selling to larger midsize to enterprise clients there's always repeatable personas at that fifth to sixth degree that then maybe a trigger enhances that further.

Yeah. So, so is there on my channel I talk a lot about repeatability and scalability, but there's a lot of upfront lifting as you've described very well before you can get to that point. Is there any So, let's just talk about like do you have some sort of baseline structure when creating these emails where they all look and and sound different, but is there any repeatability to them? any common frameworks that you deploy regardless of where the who the ICP is and what triggers we're talking about?

Totally. I think at the simplest level and again we're going to get deeper than this so don't I didn't build up to this just to keep it this simple trust me. Um I think as a good rule of thumb three ideally three sentences at maximum five for any type of first email to anyone. I I've never seen anything longer than that really work. Um, from there as a simple framework, if we're just thinking about this in three simple sentences, and again, we'll break this down even further. It's an observation about them, the value you can potentially bring to them, and the call to action, which again sounds simple, and this is what I've seen in the common training, and again, where it stops, an observation about them is not like, hey, you're hiring.

Yeah. You know, an observation about them is like, hey, congrats on the new round, you know, cuz you're going to sound like every single person coming in. Um, and same with the value as well. I want to go back to, if I haven't lost everyone at this point, the marketplace example, right? We dove really, really deep. And these are specific problems and challenges that most marketplace founders haven't really put a ton of thought into. It's always been a human labor problem. It's always been, let me handle or excuse me, hire several customer service representatives to monitor all of these messages.

Let me hire several customer service representatives to handle potential fraud. Maybe they have a little bit of system and alerting to at least like flag someone and mark, hey, this is potentially fraudulent, but beyond that, there's never been a solution that's actually potentially solved all of that. And obviously, as you know, with AI right now at the time of recording, coming up on the end of 25, beginning of 26, there's a lot of hype and potential around chatting. You know, we have the potential phone calls that we're already seeing AI make, but no, everyone talks about that.

No one's actually implemented it successfully. But again, it's the difference between and talking about the value here. Even if I'm coming in and saying, "Hey, I've created an AI chatbot that can simulate your customer service team." This is something that people have been saying for the last 5 to 10 years, even preAI, I'm naturally skeptical. Now, at the same time, if we're talking about that same exact thing, but instead of saying, "Hey, we're a chatbot to replace your customer service team," it's, "Hey, we've built custom AI agents that handle over 10,000 messages a day and autonomously detect fraudulent sales." Mh.

Now, we've put it in the exact phrasing of that specific ICP, that exact phrasing. and a CEO or someone who's a manager level that is responsible for the broader marketplace operations. They know and are trying to solve challenges at scale. That slight nuance hits completely differently than just, hey, we've built an AI chatbot to handle all of your customers needs. Yeah. Cuz they're scanning these emails and you need something that's like, oh yeah, like it emotionally jolts them. They're like, that is something I'm focused on that comes up in internal meetings.

I'm actively trying to solve that problem. and then they'll pause, look at your email more closely, probably poke around your website or something just to check it out. And now like now you've drastically increase the chance that they respond to that email because you took the upfront time to like deliver that that nuance which is so big. And I want to bring it back to something you mentioned earlier as well with triggers. That message we said is going to hit regardless. It's at least relevant. And now as an example, I think you could still get lots of meetings leading with that.

We'll talk about the call to action and potential observation as well. But now a trigger once we have gone that far to really define the ICP and the value in terms of their specific language at a very specific persona level. Now if we have a trigger that can enhance it further. And in the example of one of the people that we scored a meeting with for this founder, they literally raised $7 million the week prior. It was on TechCrunch. They're valued at like $250 million or something of that nature like already.

And when you get a funding round, that's obviously to grow the business. It's a sign that things are going well. So now when it's an observation, it's not just congrats on the funding round. It's more specifically why did that funding occur. They're growing at 400% year-over-year or something of that nature. And now we can establish credibility saying that this is one, this is a CTO of a tech company, so it's not a salesperson. And if you're a salesperson, we would change it, right? Like you just got to find your advantage here.

It's not to say you're out of luck if you're a salesperson. But we can come in as a CTO who's solving these problems specifically who sees that they've been growing 400% year-over-year and has specifically built bots to handle high volume transactions and fraudulent transactions which are two of the biggest problems for a marketplace founder that are managing tons of messages andor if they have several fraudulent transactions they're losing customers. Like if I get scammed one time on a marketplace very low chance I'm going to do that again.

And so again, we are deep in the rabbit hole but necessary and and I hope people are understanding like once you take the time to go this deep and divine it this specifically you kind of see that lens you see it for what it is. Now again if we do transition to e-commerce if we do transition to fintech companies we can get that much more specific over time. So yeah. So one mistake I mean I just personally see it I guess doing this it takes a lot of upfront work as we've said where do you see reps fall into the trap or I guess another way of putting this is how much research is too much too much research where reps are overthinking it because that's that's what I see happen a lot is reps overdo it.

They try and get everything dialed in. They actually end up just hurting their results by by doing a little too much. like what what do you see in this realm in terms of when's a good place where you're like all right I got what I need for a good template here great question and I want to answer that in two ways one for the sales rep listening that is at you know some type of company and the other for a founder starting with the sales rep I think you have way more context available to you than you give yourself credit for and to answer your original question it's when it comes to the research front you know hopefully your training and enablement which you should be honestly skeptically approaching uh that's a whole another story.

But if you are seeing consistent patterns, like find the top 10% reps on your floor if you're an SDR, an account executive, who are they selling into? Why are they successful? You're going to learn a lot there. Whether it's personas, whether it's triggers, whether it could be all of these different things that are repeatable, and then I'm going to start and try and ideally find a template or an existing message that's working. Maybe try and analyze why it's working, but also look at how I could get more specific.

That's going to take away cuz again, I I fully recognize like one, this is going to be trial and error. What we're even talking about here is a combined decade plus of experience sending cold emails. And I don't take that for granted. Like if you've never sent one, you're not going to get this right on the first time. And I would rather you send a 100red emails into the void and have no one respond to you because then you're going to then it'll click. It's like, okay, I get it now. Like no one cares and this message is horrible, but at least I sent it and now I can iterate from there.

But again, talking to someone who's at a company, actively a rep, I'm going to try and find repeatable patterns within the company, see if I can optimize that further andor actually seeing what good looks like. If you have, you know, the networking and skills to actually get that from someone or that's public information in your company's CRM. Now, I'm going to try and apply that very systematically to one other vertical. Yeah, I'm not going to take that and blow it up. But since I have a good template of what good looks like, let me see if instead of going after healthare companies, I could go after financial companies that are similar size.

And pure hypothetical, but let's say we find something that's working for companies with a,000 to 5,000 employees in the healthcare space. Let's go to financial or fintech companies that are a,000 to 5,000 employees and try and run the same playbook, rewriting the verbiage very very specifically to those personas. And again, it may or may not work, but if you do, okay, finance, e-commerce, uh, retail, what, restaurants, food and bev, like if you just cast a wide net, and and again, this is speaking to someone who's early on or or really trying to, you know, slow down to then speed up again.

If you're not systematically and really uh having a control versus like one experiment, just one experiment, one branch of that, as opposed to casting five wide nets, uh it's really hard early on to actually get something meaningful from that. and actually learn. Yeah. So, I tell reps to start with their top like five ICPs, like they're bread and butter. Like the types of prospects, whether it's a specific job title or a specific trigger in a spe specific industry that's like your bread and butter and that you salivate when you see that.

Like for me in the past, it's been like VPs of FPNA have been a great title in their particular industries where I was like, "Oh my god, there's only so many of them." and like they convert at such a high level to meetings and opportunities once we're on those meetings like that was one where I'm like all right I'm going to sit down and and really like deploy the playbook you've pretty much discussed here no great points and also I think more from the founder perspective as well and I think this is going to apply for sales reps too again when it comes to actually getting an in and we we'll talk about what hypothetical messages look like but I hope this entire conversation to this point not even talking about how to structure a message in terms of like the actual type on the email um gives you an illustration of how important it is to define these things.

But at the founder level, I think you have to look for any type of end that you have. You're a founder, you're not a saleserson, right? But common mistakes that I see again is like they're trying to build rapport by saying, "Hey, I just left my job at Google to do X, Y, and Z or like I'm a former Amazon employee that's like building this agentic uh engine optimization for search, right?" Like all these different things. And yes and no there there can be ways about it but my broader point being is like what about your experience is relevant to this person right as a sales rep you kind of have to focus on what your company does and similar results they've gotten for other people especially if you're at a more mature company but if you're a founder how can you give someone the attention and sense that like okay this is a startup this is unproven but I have a direct line with the CTO who's credible they used to work at Google but more specifically they solved this specific problem at Google or in the case of the founder example that I've mentioned already, they solved this in their past business and it was such a compelling problem that they solved.

They're starting a new business with this specifically. And again, whether or not you actually close the sale and everything in between is outside the scope of this video, but at a minimum, you're coming in and basically giving them the sense that they are getting a free line of communication to someone who is on the front lines and borderline an expert in this topic. that is right now a huge buzzword, a huge like, okay, AI for this, AI for this, AI automation, blah blah blah blah blah. So, um, just a little bit of nuance and distinction there.

Yeah, I guess getting towards the end here, what's funny is what as we've developed these frameworks ourselves, like I mean, we started in this this space years ago. Um, and we were doing this from scratch, just just using the brain and developing these templates. Obviously, what's been big now is chat GPT AI, people using that stuff to create these email templates, which I think people they can it can get them in trouble at times if they're just lazily relying on chat GPT. How do you see AI and chat GPT fitting into this framework from like a research standpoint, an actual crafting the email standpoint?

Yeah. Anything like that? I think a few caveats um that I've seen myself. one I have even in the last three months chatbt deep research is absolutely insane if I'm going to do that the only reason I say that is not to trust that as the sole source of truth but let's say as an example you are approaching a huge enterprise organization like capital one or a major bank or something of that nature it takes you all of 5 minutes to set up a good prompt in deep research and even though of all the information it gives you back maybe you take 30 to 40% that's literally something you can do in 5 minutes and have run in the background.

So, so that's one thing I'd say from a research perspective, specifically if you're going after an enormous company, having chat GPT do a lot of the heavy leg work on deep research and finding a lot of the press releases, a lot of the financial trends, uh maybe citing things from company 10Ks. That's what I tell people like adding there's public documents like their 10Ks, 10 Q's, conference calls. You can throw whatever. You can create a project for a specific account, throw all that in there, and then do deep research and as a starting point, take one of your frameworks or templates that's done well in one vertical in the past and say, use all this information to create a framework like a template that follows the same framework knowing it's not going to be perfect out of the gate, but you can use it to accelerate the process a bit and start generating some ideas.

Yeah. And I think, you know, right now clay is all the rage. uh I I've dabbled in it and I think it's very powerful, but this is I think especially for maybe a rep at a startup or maybe they have access to Clay and certainly a founder that wants to immediately like create a technical solution, which clay is kind of that in between of like it's quasi technical so you feel like you're creating something cool. I I I think the the most important thing that you said is even when you're using chat GPT to do deep research, if you are not giving it a good email template that has worked in another vertical, it doesn't matter.

Yeah. Right. Lada dah, you can send a thousand emails. We literally, again, this founder that I'm talking about sent a thousand plus emails in clay. They got two responses, two responses. Um, and then when we actually changed the messaging and dove deep like I mentioned, now we're hitting. Now, we can say, "Hey, this is what worked really well for a marketplace. I want you to specifically target e-commerce companies that are selling outdoor apparel and/or equipment like kayaks, snowboards, skis, whatever it might be, right?

And so, when it comes to actually using automation and AI, if you're brand new either as a rep or a founder, I think the minimum bar if you actually sit down and define your ICP, I would spend about an hour. I would ideally Connor's channel, our channel at higher levels, like find some templates, find some videos that can lay this out for you and start with that, but manually send a hundred to 100 to 200 emails with intention to these people and see if you get any responses, right? Even if you get a, hey, I want to learn more, that's good.

That's that's really good. But there's probably ways you could enhance the email even further to get more people to actually more consistently ask for a meeting or schedule a meeting with you. Yep. So, last thing I'd say is um maybe on the other side of this as well, thinking about the people receiving emails. I actually had uh I I have a founder in my network who started a company called Whippy. They're at 5 million ARR and like a year ago, they started getting all these emails that were like, "Hey, saw you're a UCLA grad, like all these different things." And at first, he's like, "Wow, sales reps are like actually doing research." But then it was like literally in a month he saw like 50 people saying you went to UCLA.

So, it's not about customization and having that like, okay, we found that if we talk about their company name and we do these things custom that it works. It's it's those deeper nuanced in their own language things that are actually worthwhile because there's moments in time where maybe you're an early adopter of Clay and you can send that out, but as soon as like 10 other companies in your space also are using Clay, that customization loses its effect. Um, so I know it's painful, but if you get a 100 to 200 emails manually sent first, you're actually starting to get a decent response rate.

You can actually understand and iterate over time and see how you've progressed and maybe understand why an email is performing better than another one. Now you're in a position where I would run a small scale test with automation, clay, outreach, using a sequencing tool to then send those out at scale. Yeah, man. This this is deep. a lot deeper than just ICP and persona, but this is the point you want to work to over time. So, I appreciate you sharing everything you did and going into this level of detail.

I know the audience, I'm sure, appreciates it. And if you guys don't follow Eric, I don't know why not. His link will be in the description below. Higher levels, definitely go check him out if you want more of this. I'm sure we'll do part twos and threes to this in the future. But yeah, appreciate everything you shared. anything you just want to cap off on re just leave the leave the audience with before we call it here. Yeah, Connor's got some of the best deep dives on emailing as well on his channel.

So, smash the subscribe on his channel. By the way, I'm saying this for his channel. I'm on his channel right now. Uh dude's a beast. Got absolutely killer content. So, dive deep and uh yeah, man. Great one. Hopefully, I don't even think we even gave an example message, but yeah, that's kind of the point. So, I hope you guys followed and stayed with me and uh got a lot out of it. And yeah, smash the sub on Conor's channel and uh we'll keep it rolling. Good stuff. Thanks, man.
